{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2870
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\vieww12000\viewh15840\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Article #1
\f1\b0 : What Makes a Good Instructor?\
\
Over the past forty-something years, I\'92ve had the opportunity to train with numerous instructors - fifty-one to be exact. On the teaching side of things, some were excellent. Some were OK. And some were horrible. On the moral and ethical side of things, some were outstanding while other had question marks above their activities. Allow me to share with you my perspective on what I believe makes a good instructor.\
\

\f0\b For starters, a good instructor is an individual who cares his or her students
\f1\b0 . This, I believe, is the most important quality a good instructor can possess. To care for their students, a good instructor pays attention to the needs of all of his or her students, not just the talented ones, or the gifted ones, or the good looking, or the ones who are similar in gender, race, age, ethnicity, or interest. By consistently demonstrating a concern for the individual needs of each student, instructors will begin to develop a loyal following from many of their students.\

\f0\b \
\
\
Second, a good instructor is a giver.
\f1\b0  From my perspective, giving and caring go hand-in-hand. An instructor who truly cares about the progress of each student will consistently give from the heart. This instructor will graciously share his or her time, experience, wisdom and knowledge with all who need and desire them. Additionally, good instructors will consistently go above and beyond the call of duty. They will consistently give until they can give no more.\
\

\f0\b Third, a good instructor will have the ability to adapt his or her teachings.
\f1\b0  Because of a broad base of knowledge and experience, an adept instructor will know how to present the information he or she possess to a diverse group of students. Whether they are teaching to men or women, adults or kids, military or civilians, foreigners or locals, good instructors will know (or be able to figure out) the best way to present their style to the group they are in front of so that the information can be efficiently understood, digested, practiced and retained. They will know which subjects to present at the appropriate time, as well as which ones should be avoided. The good instructor will also make every effort to present information in an educative, entertaining and enjoyable fashion. This will help the students retain the information easier. It will also help the students develop a bond with their instructor.\
\
If an aspiring instructor does not know how to effectively present information to a diverse group of individuals, he or she should make every effort to learn how to do it. A good instructor knows that no one is born a phenomenal instructor. They understand that becoming one is something that takes time, effort, patience, focus, diligence and persistence. In other words, becoming a good instructor is a skill set that can be developed over time!\
\

\f0\b Next, a good instructor willingly adapts to the ever-changing needs of his or her students
\f1\b0 . The good instructor has paid attention to detail for years. He or she knows that students train for a variety of different reasons. Some students train for fun, while others train to relieve stress. Some train because they want to learn self-defense, while others do so because they desire to feel the adrenaline rush of competition or the euphoria of learning something new and challenging. Some students train because psychologically they still have something to prove, while others come to class because they desire to \'93feel\'94 a part of something bigger than themselves. The good instructor knows all of these things and adapts to them. He allows each student to find his or her chosen path. He also allows the students to change their choice of paths at a later point in time. Knowing how to adapt to each student is important part of the success and health of the training facility 
\f2\i and
\f1\i0  the instructor.\
\
Unfortunately, change and adaptation are two things some instructors fight as though their lives depended on it. Their refusal to change sends a subtle message to all who pay attention. It tells everyone who is watching or listening, \'93
\f2\i I have no desire to remain a student. I have all the answers.
\f1\i0  I know it all.\'94 It also implies, \'93I enjoy the instructor status and the power that I have.\'94 The good instructor knows that the needs of his or her students will change over time. They also knows that they must change and adapt to these changing needs, as well keep current on all the latest trends. This change will help bring new life into the training environment, as well as keep boredom and frustration at low levels.\
\

\f0\b A good instructor maintains a high level of awareness to those who have special needs
\f1\b0 : \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1) Those who learn very quickly.\
2) Those who learn at a slower pace.\
3) Those who lack confidence or need reassurance. \
4) Those who do not possess a high level of coordination. \
5) Those who still have something to prove to others and to themselves.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The good instructor pays attention to the dynamics of each class. Good instructors know their students not only require them to be excellent instructors who share and care, but also that they will eventually want them to be the keepers of the peace, solvers of problems and judges of fairness and equality. In short, the good instructor makes every effort to stay keen about his or her students, as well as create and maintain a safe and enjoyable training environment for all.\
\

\f0\b Next, I believe a good instructor must have been a good student himself, since "it is impossible to lead if one has never truly followed".
\f1\b0  I believe it was Benjamin Franklin who spoke those words long ago, and they are still true today. In order to fully understand the needs of various students, the instructor must have first been an exemplary student: One who has learned his or her craft through hands-on experience, followed the examples given by senior students and instructors, made adjustments along the way for his or her own personality and body type, and then assumed more responsibility as it was given to him or her.\
\
I believe the good student has the potential to become a good instructor. I also believe the opposite is true, and that the not-so-good student has the potential to become a not-so-good instructor. Now, I am not saying that a not-so-good student could not become a good instructor. I just know that people tend to be creatures of habit. If they have taken short cuts as students, they will more than likely do the same thing as instructors. \
\
Additionally, I believe the really good instructors will always remain students. They will retain that child-like curiosity for martial arts, learning, and life. They will also be on the lookout for more efficient ways to teach, present, practice, and perform.\
\

\f0\b Finally, I believe the good instructor must make the effort to become and remain a kind, considerate and compassionate human being.
\f1\b0  Joking, or talking, negatively about students behind their backs or sharing confidential details with one student about another student are just a few examples of deeds that cause division and harsh feelings. The good instructor will lead by example. He or she will allow his or her actions to speak the intent and content of the heart. He or she will make every effort to keep his or her words and deeds above reproach.\
\
I hope that this article has been helpful and enlightening. It was written from the heart.\
\
\
\

\f0\b Article #2
\f1\b0 : Effectiveness, Efficiency and Playfulness: Part One
\f0\b \

\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I have been involved in martial arts since 1981. In the early days, my main focus was practicality and self-defense. As soon as I had gained a certain amount of proficiency with what I had learned, I wanted more. I walked down the path of technical accumulation, like many do, and found that it led to a series of plateaus. So I began looking elsewhere.\
\
As I began to make efforts to define and refine my knowledge, I found that my initial concern in martial arts training was being effective with the knowledge I had gained. For many years after this discovery, I focused exclusively on being effective with the technical knowledge I had gained. Eventually, I became bored with effectiveness and began to search for something more lasting.\
\
Next, through a unique method of discovery I had discovered, I bumped into efficiency. I found through time and disciplined effort that efficiency enveloped, or contained, effectiveness. However, what made efficiency so addictive was the idea that I could make fewer movements, exert less effort and yet still accomplish the same goals. Once I got a taste of efficiency, I began focusing more of my training time on this area. While I had become more successful through the development of efficiency in many areas of Jiu Jitsu, I still sensed that something was missing.\
\
All of my training, all of my thinking, and all of my writings eventually led me to a final mindset. Here it is:\
\
With a certain amount of time training efficiency, I found myself moving towards a new concept that I would soon call "
\f0\b playfulness
\f1\b0 ." Playfulness encompasses the following:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li360\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. A willingness to repeatedly place one\'92s self into vulnerable positions in order to obtain smoothness and finesse. Here\'92s an example: First, I train my escapes from the bottom of the side mount using posture and good hip movement. Then, I train my escapes without the use of posture. Next, I train my escapes without the use of hip movement. Finally, I train my escapes with minimal use of posture and a minimal use of hip movement. By the time I become proficient at this method of escaping, and once I put good posture and good hip movement back into the training, my escapes will be turbo-charged! Developing one\'92s skill sets to this level is imperative to being able to play. (
\f0\b NOTE
\f1\b0 : 
\f2\i This is something I did with side mount escapes. Some of you might remember reading in previous articles about my focus on side mount escape training for a period of seven years, yes? Well, this was how I was able to remain so focused on one topic for so long!
\f1\i0 )\
\
B. A high level of mastery in numerous related areas of Jiu Jitsu (
\f2\i e.g. butterfly guard control + half guard control + side mount escapes
\f1\i0 ). This is so important to developing one\'92s ability to play!\
\
C. A lack of a desire to finish my training partners with an explosive submission or hard strike. Instead, there was a growing desire to discover and explore the various levels of control, distancing and leverage. For example, I explored the differences between the following training methods: [1] 90% control and 80% control over an opponent\'92s body, [2] being on the bottom of the side mount position and analyzing the differences, as well as the pros and cons, between my opponent\'92s chest being ten inches away from my chest versus it being six inches away from my chest, [3] exploring the different amounts of leverage with a straight arm lock when attempting to finish it with the thumb up versus the thumb pointing to the left versus the thumb pointing to the right versus the thumb under my armpit, as well as wrist control versus thumb control versus hand control. This training led me to discover some of the very subtle differences between these various positions. It also led me to more fully understand control so I could play more often--especially with students who were stronger and had more endurance than I did. By exploring these differences, as well as gaining a massive amount of knowledge, I learned that I could be playful most of the time, reduce the amount and frequency of injuries and make sure all involved parties were having fun!\
\
D. The above training method led me to a mindset of a willingness and desire to allow others to enjoy the art at my expense. In other words, I could let people into the game, develop my timing, awareness and distancing while allowing my training partners to sweep and submit me! \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Having experienced effectiveness, efficiency and playfulness for many years, allow me to share with you some insights I have learned along the way:\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li560\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'95 Effectiveness, while fun and exciting in the beginning, becomes boring after a while. To those who need to tap their students all of the time, it doesn\'92t become boring, but to those who desire to allow the next generation of practitioners a chance to experience success over and over again, effectiveness is boring.\
\'95 Effectiveness involves injuries along the way-- because if the tap is all you focus on, then speed, power and explosiveness become king. And when those elements are present, injuries are lurking around the corner!\
\'95 Effectiveness can sometimes be heavy and negative-- especially when a person is a white belt or an older student who is just beginning their journey in Jiu Jitsu.\
\'95 Effectiveness is generally self-centered and self-serving.\
\
\'95 Efficiency is a fascinating journey for the experienced and the mature.\
\'95 Efficiency involves fewer injuries than effectiveness.\
\'95 Efficiency is much lighter on the emotions, and on the attitudes.\
\'95 Efficiency still involves being effective, but it is not the main focus.\
\
\'95 Playfulness never gets boring.\
\'95 Playfulness rarely involves ego-based injuries.\
\'95 Playfulness is light and jovial. It is very easy on the emotions.\
\'95 Playfulness is very communal. It makes room for the next generation!\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
My goal in sharing this with you is to encourage you to one day seek out playfulness. Unfortunately, you need a series of skill sets to do this, and this skill set usually doesn\'92t present itself until mid to high purple belt. However, it is obtainable by all.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 Playfulness is so much more advanced than efficiency or effectiveness. Nevertheless, to even reach this level, the practitioner must go through hundreds of hours of effectiveness training and hundreds of hours of efficiency training.\
\
In part two of this article, I will go into greater details on effectiveness, efficiency and playfulness.\
\
Until then, enjoy yourself in this marvelous and fascinating art we call Jiu Jitsu!\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\

\f0\b Article #3
\f1\b0 : Defining the Terms
\f0\b \

\f1\b0 \
Over the years, many of you have read and heard instructors use the following terms:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Basic\
2. Intermediate\
3. Advanced\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
I believe most Jiu Jitsu students have heard of or read these terms before. I also believe most of these students have glossed over them without ever taking the time to define what they really mean. \
\
If you were like many students (and instructors), you probably applied the terms something like this: \'93Basic\'94 for white belts and \'93Advanced\'94 for blue belts and above. \
\
In this article, allow me to share with you my definitions are for these terms.\
\
When I say or write the word \'93basic,\'94 I am referring to something that is primary and necessary for growth. For example, a basic attribute for all students of the standing arts is balance. Without balance, a student has no foundation to build off of. A basic technique for all students of the standing arts is a rear hand straight punch. So, regardless of whether a person is training in Boxing or Karate, that student must train his or her balance while performing a rear hand straight punch. Balance is also a primary attribute for all Jiu Jitsu students. And, a basic technique for all Jiu Jitsu students would be the hip escaping technique from the bottom of the side mount position.\
\
When I say or write the word \'93intermediate,\'94 I am referring to a phase of training that follows the basics. This phase of training is less focused on the learning of technique but is rather more focused on the employment of various training methods. These training methods are used to develop specific physical attributes like power, explosiveness, endurance, accuracy, etc. These training methods are also focused on developing mental attributes like focus, concentration, determination and pain tolerance. With the combination of clean and precise technique mixed with solid physical and mental attributes, the practitioner will have a marked advantage over an untrained individual who is bigger and stronger.\
\
Finally, when I say or write the word \'93advanced,\'94 I am referring to a phase of training that follows the intermediate level. This phase of training is much more complex than the basic phase. It focuses on these six areas:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Community\
2. Modification\
3. Adaptation\
4. Tactics\
5. Strategy\
6. Personalization\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
From my perspective, the first thing that should be obvious about an advanced practitioner is not his or her technique. Rather, it should be his or her willingness to give back and share with others. In other words, the advanced practitioner concerns himself or herself with community. They teach and share their chosen art because they love sharing and because they desire to give back.\
\
What comes next is advanced practitioners learn to modify techniques for themselves as well as for other student who train with them. In my own journey, the people who taught me the most about teaching were the students who were physically challenged. For example, my first group of blind students taught me how visual my teaching language and verbiage was. These students encouraged me to speak as though everyone in the room had their eyes closed. By doing this, I learned to modify my teachings for those who were in front of me. And by doing this, I became a better instructor over time. \
\
Additionally, I\'92ve had students who trained with me and could not lift their hips up and off of the mats more than an inch. Trying to teach them how to do a spinning arm lock from the guard was difficult at first because I did not know how to modify the techniques I had been taught to meet these students\'92 needs. Eventually, I figured out a way to modify this technique so that those with weak buttock and lower back muscles could perform the technique with the same effectiveness as others in the class.\
\
To make a long story short, learning how to modify techniques for personal needs as well as the needs of one\'92s students is an important part of the advanced students\'92 development.\
\
Adaptation is about making the effort to adapt one\'92s self to the unique set of circumstances that have presented themselves. This may sound like an easy task, but trust me when I say it is not. Let me give you an example:\
\
Let\'92s say you have to spar against several opponents, and let\'92s say your guard, with the gi, is the strongest aspect of your game. Your first opponent refuses to wear a gi. He sweats a lot and won\'92t allow you to wear a gi when you spar with him. Your second opponent is really good at passing the guard and holding down from the side mount. Your third opponent outweighs you by 45 pounds and is really good at leg locks. Your fourth and final opponent is a Division I wrestling champion who also happens to be a seasoned purple belt in Jiu Jitsu.\
\
Do you see how you won\'92t be able to use just one type of guard on your different opponents? Do you see how you\'92ll have to be proficient with the use of the closed guard, spider guard, butterfly guard, half guard, side mount escapes and various other related techniques and positions? Your Jiu Jitsu is going to have to adapt to each opponent. \
\
Next comes the use of tactics. I think of tactics as \'93tricks\'94 used to fool an opponent into thinking you\'92re going one way when in fact you are going in a different direction. For example, for years, I used the Kimura technique not as a finishing technique, but rather as a tactic to get on top of training partners who were much larger and stronger than I was. When I would entangle their arms, I would purposely let them pass my guard while grabbing a hold of their shorts or gi pants to prevent me from finishing the lock on the shoulder. However, just as soon as they were settling in on their position, I reversed them and put them on their back. This tactic worked very well for many years. \
\
Next, there\'92s strategy. Strategy is nothing more than a group of tactics designed to give the advanced practitioner marked advantage over time. For example, one strategy you could use to gain an advantage over your opponent would be to encourage him or her to become emotional during the match and try too hard to finish certain techniques. Knowing how good this opponent is, you may feel as though his or her skill sets in certain areas are so much better than yours that you purposely evoke emotions into the match or make yourself vulnerable so that the opponent tries really hard to finish you quickly. Then, when he or she tires before you do, you take advantage of and exploit this weakness. In other words, you use four or five tactics to cause your opponent to expend more energy than he or she should. Then, sensing the pace of the match starting to slow down, you engage him or her with more fervor and cause him or her to use even more energy. Still, you patiently wait for the appropriate time to begin your attack.\
\
Finally, there\'92s personalization. This is the part of the art where you personalize everything to work just for you. At this point in time, it doesn\'92t matter what techniques you choose; if it works for you then that is all that matters. For those who are instructors, they do the same thing for their advanced students.\
\
As you can see, the advanced game is so much more complex than the basic one.\
\
Having taught martial arts for twenty-seven years, I can tell you that a lot of beginner level students are intrigued by the advanced game and want to know more about it. Allow me to encourage all beginner level students, or those who wear a white or blue belt, to focus on the basics for the first three to five years of your journey in Jiu Jitsu. Don\'92t try to jump ahead to what you think or feel is \'93the good stuff.\'94 Pay your dues like the rest of us. Learn, practice, and develop some finesse in your basic techniques first. This effort will pay huge dividends in the end. And, if you try and take shortcuts, trust me, it will show itself down the road!\
\
I hope this article has been enlightening and that it gives you a better idea of what to focus on at the different belt and experience levels. \
\
\

\f0\b Article #4
\f1\b0 : Intermediate Level Brazilian Jiu Jitsu\
\
Below is an excerpt from an article I shared with the instructors in my association many years ago. Enjoy!\
\
Here are ten areas to train for intermediate level Jiu Jitsu (
\f2\i once the basics have been trained
\f1\i0  extensively):\
\
1. Take an inventory and review what you think you know:\
\
	A. How many basic techniques do you know from each position?\
	B. How well do you know and understand these basic techniques?\
	C. Can you perform them effectively in a dynamic environment?\
	D. How much energy do you use when you perform the techniques? \
	E. Can you perform them equally on both sides of your body?\
	F. How well do you know your mechanics? Can you list each movement?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li1440\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *Answering these questions will help determine your current and true strengths, weaknesses and tendencies. They will also show you where you need to focus your training.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
2. Put your basics together into two and three technique combinations:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. Can you perform these combinations smoothly (without any jerky movements)?\
B. Can you perform these combinations slowly (without feeling the need to speed up)?\
C. Can you perform these combinations smoothly and slowly with your eyes closed?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 *Answering these questions will help you to develop awareness, sensitivity, efficiency and finesse. With a high level of awareness, sensitivity, efficiency and finesse, you are setting the table for the next part of your journey - Advanced Jiu Jitsu!\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
3. Put the basics together into two and three technique combinations 
\f0\b based on positioning
\f1\b0 . This is the next phase of combination training. This is where one technique overlaps another technique mechanically. Make sure you pay attention to the entire process of the combination, not just the ending. Take notice of how the ending of technique \'93A\'94 no longer ends where it used to end.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 * The purpose of this training is to go through the process of \'93shedding\'94 / becoming more efficient in your movements. When two techniques are put together into a combination, there are three moving parts: Technique A, Technique B and the transition between techniques A and B. All three of these must be trained individually and then collectively. Additionally, when Technique A and B are put together into a combination you will find that Technique A is much shorter than when it is used / practiced / performed by itself.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
4. Put the basics together into simple two and three technique combinations 
\f0\b based on resistance
\f1\b0 . Define resistance (
\f2\i six lines of movement
\f1\i0 ). Learn and practice the techniques for the most common forms of resistance. Focus only on basic techniques.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 * The purpose of this training is to develop your awareness, sensitivity and flow. An important point here about training resistance: Over the years, I have seen students make the mistake of learning a new technique, practicing it a few times and then asking their training partners to resist the newly learned technique. This, in my opinion, is a horrible mistake. It\'92s a mistake for a few important reasons. First, the student has just learned the technique. So, asking another student to resist only makes the matter more complicated-- and no skills will be developed with this mindset. Second, the form of resistance is not defined. Here\'92s an example: You put me into an arm lock and then you tell me to resist. I bite you in the leg and then you become upset with me. You have no right to become upset with me because you didn\'92t define the resistance. All you said was, \'93OK, now resist.\'94 So, I resisted in a manner that was guaranteed to make you think and act differently about the arm lock. This is why resistance training is reserved for intermediate level students. Resistance must be defined first in order to learn how to effectively neutralize it.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
5. Learn, practice and develop one or two counters to the following techniques:\
\
	A. The bridge and roll mount escape\
	B. The basic elbow/knee mount escape\
	C. The foot lift mount escape\
	D. The foot drag mount escape\
	E. The basic under the leg guard pass\
	F. The basic over the leg guard pass\
	G. The basic replace into the guard side mount escape\
	H. The basic go to your knees side mount escape\
	I.  Mount posture\
	J.  Side mount posture\
	K. Guard posture\
	L. Straight arm lock\
	M. Bent arm lock\
	N. Rear choke\
	O. Guillotine choke\
	P. Triangle choke with the arms\
	Q. Triangle choke with the legs\
	R. Palm up, palm up collar choke\
	S. Palm up, palm down collar choke\
	T. Straight foot lock\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 U. Heel hook\
V. Figure-four toe hold\
W. Knee bar\
X. Scissors sweep\
Y. Foot lift sweep\
Z. Knee sweep\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
By learning, practicing and developing these counters, you will not only raise your level of awareness to self and your training partners, but you will also develop a highly polished intermediate level Jiu Jitsu game.\
\
\
6. Refine and polish what you know. Make your basics better, more efficient and smoother. Let me give you an example: \
\
When you perform a basic sweep, how much effort do you put into making it successful? Let\'92s say your answer is 80%. In other words, when you attempt a basic sweep from your guard while sparring, it takes you 80% speed and power to make it happen. OK. That\'92s a good starting point, but I hope you can see that you have a lot of room for improvement.\
\
In order to become more efficient, you\'92ll need to train basic sweep much more in order to make it smooth and efficient (
\f2\i e.g. move down the scale and using just 60% effort
\f1\i0 ). Do you know how to train the sweep to become more efficient? If you replied, \'93Well, I just need to do more repetitions\'94, you would be correct. But with that answer, I would ask you a few important follow up questions like, \'93How would you train these repetitions? What would be your mindset while training? And how will you know when you\'92ve reached your goal?\'94 If you were like most students, you\'92d probably stand there with a blank look on your face-- not knowing exactly what to say. \
\
I write this because I have seen a lot of students, in numerous countries around the world, train technique (
\f2\i i.e. they do a bunch of repetitions
\f1\i0 ) and then they spar. They have no structured or progressive training methods to lead them from the knowledge and understanding of a technique to having a useable and repeatable skill set on the mat. If you do not know how to do this, then that is your next goal. Learn how to accomplish this with a structured and progressive training method. If you\'92re not sure on how to do this, I will be producing an iOS App on this in the coming months. Please keep your eyes on my main website {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.RoyHarris.com"}}{\fldrslt \ul www.RoyHarris.com}} for more information\
\
7. Positioning your body to purposely funnel an opponent\'92s efforts down a specific path:\
\
	A. From mount (
\f2\i turn on side, bottom knee up and out
\f1\i0 )\
	B. From guard (
\f2\i hands on ground, fingers pointed back towards your feet
\f1\i0 )\
	C. From side mount (
\f2\i push opponent\'92s head alongside your body
\f1\i0 )\
\
By developing your positional skills to a high level, you force your opponents to move in predictable manners. For example, when you learn how to properly position yourself on the bottom of the side mount position - like I taught on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/roy-harris-bjj-over-40/id426984931?ls=1&mt=8"}}{\fldrslt \ul my BJJ over 40 app}} - you force your opponents to give up chest to chest or scarf holds and go to either the north and south or knee on the belly positions. So, by developing proper positioning as well as the timing of this position, you can usually be one step ahead of your training partners-- because you know where he or she is going to reposition their body when they pass your guard and reach the side mount position!\
\
Why does this positioning work? It works because it takes away those things that are primary to their control. I will share more on this topic in another article.\
\
\
8. Develop your sense of timing:\
\
There are three points in time in when you can employ a technique:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Beginning            Middle        	End\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	____________________________
\f0\b X
\f1\b0 ____  (Beginning level students)\
	________________
\f0\b X
\f1\b0 ________________  (Intermediate level students)\
	___
\f0\b X
\f1\b0 _____________________________  (Advanced level students)\
\
Take the time to identify the various movements within your techniques. This will heighten your awareness. Then, move your response to the stimuli back on the timeline until you reach the beginning.\
\
Please remember that timing is faster than speed, more powerful than power and stronger than strength. \
\
\
9. Making the effort to master the primary positional aspect of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu:\
\
	A. Mount escapes\
	B. Side mount escapes\
	C. Guard control\
	D. Guard passing\
	E. Side mount dominance\
	F. Mount dominance\
\
For white and blue belts, I recommend they focus on just four positions: (1) The top of the guard, (2) the bottom of the guard, (3) the top of the side mount and (4) the bottom of the side mount. These four positions are the primary positions of their belt level. For purple belts, I\'92d recommend adding the top and bottom aspects of the mount position. Being able to escape from the inferior positions and control from the top positions is paramount to laying a solid foundation in the art!\
\
10. The process of mastery:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. Knowledge\
B. Understanding\
C. Familiarity\
D. Confidence\
E. Mastery\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Knowledge begins the process. At this level, we take in new information at the ears and/or eyes and then pass it on to our brain.\
\
Understanding is the next step in the process. When we move from a general knowledge to understanding, we make the conscious choice to tie this new piece of information to an older and more familiar piece of information. Once we do this, we have a general understanding of the new piece of information, and, it is now tied to our memory.\
\
Familiarization comes next. When we make a conscious and disciplined effort to make the new information an integral part of our conscious and subconscious mind, it\'92s only a matter of time before we are intimately familiar with it.\
\
Now, before I move on, it is important that you understand two important points. First, knowledge and understanding occur within the mind. Also, knowledge and understanding, generally, happen within the first few minutes of explanation, demonstration, and practice. Second, familiarity implies something mental as well as something emotional. Within the context of martial arts, it also implies a ton of practice because the student now knows what the new technique 
\f2\i feels
\f1\i0  like.\
\
Confidence is the next step. At this level, the student now has a few useable, repeatable skill sets. Because of these skill sets, the student has a level of confidence in the performance of the techniques he or she never had before. This is where Jiu Jitsu becomes fun!\
\
The final step in the process is mastery. At this level, the student has now mastered a handful of related techniques, which means the student is highly proficient with four to five techniques from a given position and the student is also proficient at two or three technique variations.\
\
The equation looks something like this:\
\
Joe is quite proficient at the employment of techniques 1, 2, 3 and 4. These four techniques are \'93high-percentage\'94 techniques. However, he is also very proficient at techniques 1a, 1b, 1c, 2a, 2b, 2c, 3a, 3b, 3c, 4a, 4b and 4c. This means that Joe's arsenal is a force to be reckoned with. He is highly proficient at sixteen related techniques from a specific position.\
\
This is how I want you, as my instructors, to train.\
\
You have already been through the basic level course. This intermediate level course will be a longer journey than the basic one, but it promises to be more fun.\
\
Enjoy!\
\
\
\

\f0\b Article #5
\f1\b0 : Quantify Your Grappling Experience: Part One
\f0\b  \

\f1\b0 \
On February of 1998, I began thinking about my grappling experience over the past nine years or so. I reminisced about those long trips to Los Angeles, and all those miles I put on my vehicles (over 200,000) and all that money I spent on private and group lessons (over $20,000), as well as all that time I spent driving anywhere from three to six hours on the road each day. Plus, there was a lot of time I spent reading books, practicing with friends, and using various visualization techniques.\
\
As I did this, I began to try and quantify all this experience and questioned what I had gained from my investment of time and money. I thought about the different areas of grappling I\'92d trained. Here is just a glimpse of the areas:\
\
1. Escapes from the mount\
2. Escapes from the closed guard\
3. Escapes from the open guard\
4. Escapes from the side mount\
5. Escapes from kesa gatame\
6. Escapes from kuzure kesa gatame\
7. Escapes from headlocks\
8. Escapes from the front mount\
9. Escapes from the knee on stomach\
10. Escapes from the half guard\
11. Escapes from the back mount\
12. Escapes from the sprawl\
13. Counters for each escape\
\
14. Dominate from the mount\
15. Dominate from the closed guard\
16. Dominate from the open guard\
17. Dominate from the side mount\
18. Dominate from kesa gatame\
19. Dominate from kuzure kesa gatame\
20. Dominate from headlocks\
21. Dominate from the front mount \
22. Dominate from the knee on stomach\
23. Dominate from the half guard\
24. Dominate from the back mount\
25. Counters for each dominating technique\
\
26. Arm locks from the mount\
27. Arm locks from the closed guard\
28. Arm locks from the open guard\
29. Arm locks from the side mount\
30. Arm locks from kesa gatame\
31. Arm locks from kuzure kesa gatame\
32. Arm locks from the front mount\
33. Arm locks from knee on stomach\
34. Arm locks from the half guard\
35. Arm locks from the back mount \
36. Arm locks from the sprawl\
37. Counters for each arm lock\
38. Escapes from each arm lock\
\
39. Bare arm chokes from the mount\
40. Bare arm chokes from the closed guard\
41. Bare arm chokes from the open guard\
42. Bare arm chokes from the side mount\
43. Bare arm chokes from kesa gatame\
44. Bare arm chokes from kuzure kesa gatame\
45. Bare arm chokes from the front mount\
46. Bare arm chokes from knee on stomach\
47. Bare arm chokes from the half guard\
48. Bare arm chokes from the back mount\
49. Bare arm chokes from the sprawl\
50. Counters for each choke\
51. Escapes from each bare armed choke\
\
52. Collar chokes from the mount\
53. Collar chokes from the closed guard\
54. Collar chokes from the open guard\
55. Collar chokes from the sidemount\
56. Collar chokes from kesa gatame\
57. Collar chokes from kuzure kesa gatame\
58. Collar chokes from the front mount\
59. Collar chokes from knee on stomach\
60. Collar chokes from the half guard\
61. Collar chokes from the back mount\
62. Collar chokes from the sprawl\
63. Counters for each collar choke\
64. Escapes from each collar choke\
\
65. Foot lock from the closed guard\
66. Foot lock from the open guard\
67. Foot lock from the mount\
68. Foot lock from the side mount\
69. Foot lock from kesa gatame (transition)\
70. Foot lock from kuzure kesa gatame (transition)\
71. Foot lock from the front mount\
72. Foot lock from knee on stomach\
73. Foot lock from the half guard\
74. Foot lock from the back mount\
75. Foot lock from the sprawl (transition)\
76. Counters for each foot lock\
77. Escapes from each foot lock\
\
78. Knee locks from the closed guard\
79. Knee locks from the open guard\
80. Knee locks from the mount\
81. Knee locks from the side mount\
82. Knee locks from kesa gatame (transition)\
83. Knee locks from kuzure kesa gatame (transition)\
84. Knee locks from the front mount\
85. Knee locks from knee on stomach\
86. Knee locks from the half guard\
87. Knee locks from the back mount\
88. Knee locks from the sprawl (transition)\
89. Counters for each knee lock\
90. Escapes from each knee lock\
\
91. Heel hook from the closed guard\
92. Heel hook from the open guard\
93. Heel hook from the mount\
94. Heel hook from the side mount\
95. Heel hook from kesa gatame (transition)\
96. Heel hook from kuzure kesa gatame (transition)\
97. Heel hook from the front mount\
98. Heel hook from knee on stomach\
99. Heel hook from the half guard\
100. Heel hook from the back mount\
101. Heel hook from the sprawl (transition)\
102. Counters for each heel hook\
103. Escapes from each heel hook\
\
104. Take downs from standing\
105. Counters for each take down\
106. Take downs from kneeling\
107. Counters for each take down\
108. Throws from standing\
109. Counters for each throw\
110. Foot and knee sweep from standing\
111. Counters for each sweep\
112. Standing joint locking\
113. Counters for each lock\
114. Standing chokes\
115. Counters for each choke\
116. Have the ability to flow between the techniques\
117. Basic self-defense\
118. Physical conditioning (timing, endurance, speed, explosiveness, etc.)\
119. Mental conditioning (focus, determination, pain tolerance, etc.)\
120. Strategy\
\
This is just my grappling experience. (Remember, I\'92ve also trained extensively in Bruce Lee\'92s Jeet Kune Do and Filipino Kali, as well as twenty-four other styles of martial arts).\
\
Now that I\'92ve quantified my grappling experience, what does this mean for you? I want to encourage you to quantify your own experience and determine a specific course of action for this New Year. What is it that you 
\f2\i really
\f1\i0  want to become good at this year? Takedowns? Leg locks? Chokes? Arm locks? Sweeps? You can do it if you put your mind to it!\
\
There\'92s so much out there for you to study and become good at. Let me encourage you to take your time and do it right the first time. I know that it is fun to learn new stuff. However, I believe that it is more important to become good at what you already know than to gain new information. Why? Because there will always be more information. (To this day, I still learn new stuff. Plus, my instructor Professor Joe Moreira still learns new things, as does his instructor!)\
\
There will always be someone who is better or more knowledgeable with leg locks or chokes. You can always find someone who is more knowledgeable at something than you will ever be. Don\'92t worry about trying to gain more information. Become proficient at the techniques you already know.\
\
Quantify your experience and begin to pursue excellence!\
\
\
\

\f0\b Article #6
\f1\b0 : An Overview of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu Basics\
\
Since the main issue in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu is control, you must first learn how to prevent an opponent from controlling your body by developing the proper skill sets to effectively and efficiently escape off of your back from the mount and side mount positions. This is primary to developing a really good Jiu Jitsu game. I write this because I have seen black belts have a difficult time escaping from the front mount position - one of the easiest positions from which to escape!\
\
Secondly, you must learn how to control your opponent\'92s body through the use of major and minor control positions. The primary major controls positions are the front mount, back mount, side mount and guard positions. The primary minor control positions are the triangle choke with the legs, the straight-arm lock, the Kimura, the Americana and the guillotine choke. (
\f2\i More on these in another article and app
\f1\i0 )\
\
Third, you must develop the following seven (7) physical attributes:\
\
	1. Awareness\
	2. Balance\
	3. Coordination\
	4. Timing\
	5. Sensitivity\
	6. Explosiveness\
	7. Endurance\
\
By focusing your training on the above-mentioned areas, you will lay a solid foundation upon which you can build something that is personal and something that will last.\
\
Here is a list of twenty-eight techniques that I believe will help you to develop a set of useable, repeatable skill sets that you\'92ll be able to use in your 40\'92s, 50\'92s, 60\'92s and early 70\'92s:\
\
I. MOUNT ESCAPES\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. Two techniques on each side\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 		1. Bridge and roll technique\
		2. Elbow/knee technique\
\
II. SIDEMOUNT ESCAPES\
	A. Two techniques on each side\
		1. Place into the guard\
		2. Go to your knees\
\
III. GUARD CONTROL\
	A. Two techniques on each side\
		1. Closed guard control\
		2. Spider guard control\
\
IV. GUARD PASSING\
	A. Two techniques on each side\
		1. Under the leg\
		2. Over the leg\
\
V. SIDEMOUNT CONTROL\
	A. Two techniques on each side\
		1. Hold down #2\
		2. Hold down #3\
\
VI. MOUNT CONTROL\
	A. Two techniques on each side\
		1. Hold down #1\
		2. Hold down #2\
\
VII. STRAIGHT ARM LOCKS\
	A. From two positions\
		1. Mount position\
		2. Guard position\
\
VIII. BENT ARM LOCKS\
	A. From two positions\
		1. Side mount position\
		2. Guard position\
\
\
IX. BARE ARM AND LEG CHOKES\
	A. From two positions\
		a. 1. Side mount position\
		a. 2. Guard position\
\
X. COLLAR CHOKES\
	A. From two positions\
		a. 1. Side mount position\
		a. 2. Guard position\
\
XI. THROWS & TAKEDOWNS\
	A. Two throws, two takedowns on each side\
		1. Uchi mata\
		2. Kouchi gari\
		3. Double leg\
		4. Single leg\
\
XII. SWEEPS\
	A. Four techniques on each side\
		1. Scissors sweep\
		2. Hip bump sweep\
		3. Elevator sweep\
		4. Knee sweep\
\
Having been involved with Brazilian Jiu Jitsu since 1991, and having written over 600 pages of personal notes, I have concluded that there are less than 50 techniques that lay the foundation for all beginner level students. Even though Brazilian Jiu Jitsu has thousands of techniques, it is the above twenty-eight that are used most often - by many practitioners. These twenty-eight techniques are the most important to train during the formative, \'93white belt\'94, years of training.\
\
\
\

\f0\b Article #7
\f1\b0 : Legwork in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu
\f0\b \

\f1\b0 \
When it comes to controlling an opponent inside your guard, you must have a mixture of flexibility, good leg movement and sensitivity. Here are the twelve movements themselves to help develop good leg movement:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Circles with the feet, inward and outward\
2. Circles with the knees, inward and outward\
3. Pushing motions with the soles of the feet\
4. Pushing motions with the shins\
5. Pushing motions with the calves\
6. Pushing motions with four sides of the knee\
7. Pushing motions with the thighs\
8. Hooking motions with the insteps\
9. Pulling motions with the calves\
10. Pulling motions with the top of the knee\
11. Grabbing motions with the bend of the knee\
12. Driving and grabbing motions with the top of the hip\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Once the student learns the movements, understands the movements and becomes thoroughly familiar with these movements, it will only be a matter of time before this familiarity turns into confidence.\
\
What comes next is sensitivity training. In order to do this, close your eyes when you train. Learn to feel with your legs. Close your eyes when you spar. Gain a sense of timing in real time. Make yourself more vulnerable, more often. In other words, let people get close to passing your guard before replacing the guard or going to your knees.\
\
The various elements I have written about so far only deal with control. There has been no mention of sweeps or submissions, and there is a specific reason for that. In the beginning of students' journeys in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu (from white belt to purple belt), most of their time should be spent learning how to control an opponent from their guard rather than learning how to submit or sweep. Why? With the element of control, the student can buy time to look for or set up a sweep or submission. Without control, the student is forced to use speed and/or explosiveness to effect a sweep or submission.\
\
Now that you have been armed with this knowledge, are you going to practice your guard control? Are you going to focus on it for an extended period of time? I hope so!\
\
Guard control is one of the more important fundamental skills in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. Its importance cannot be overlooked.\
\
Enjoy the journey!\
\
\
\
\

\f0\b Article #8
\f1\b0 : Quantify Your Grappling Experience, Part Two\
\
Some time ago, I wrote an article entitled, \'93Quantify Your Grappling Experience.\'94 In that article, I listed 120 areas of grappling training that I had explored over several years. These areas of training represent the foundation of my grappling experience. My purpose in writing that article was to show you the process I went through to become a competent grappling instructor and black belt in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. I also wanted to give you an example of how to quantify your own grappling experience, as well as encourage you to obtain more depth with your current knowledge of grappling.\
\
In this article, I would like to expand on the first one and show you the depth of my training in each of those 120 different areas of grappling training.\
\
The individual components of training that I am about to share with you are components that I felt were critical to my development as an instructor and as a practitioner of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. The individual components of my training are:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Technical knowledge\
2. Mechanics\
3. Precise limb placement\
4. Combinations and drills: the use of momentum\
5. Attributes\
6. Angles of pressure\
7. Limitations of technique\
8. Areas of vulnerability\
9. Counters\
10. Control\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Each of these components should be applied to the one120 areas of grappling training that I listed in the previous article. Let\'92s take a look each component:\
\

\f0\b Technical knowledge
\f1\b0 : How many techniques do I know to escape from the mounted position? Well, when I first started, I knew nothing. However, my knowledge has grown from one technique to now over 40 (forty-two to be precise). Now that\'92s 42 different techniques for escaping the mount position. I know this seems like a lot of information, but wait until you read the rest of this post. Technical knowledge is only the beginning!\
\
Learning and discovering new techniques is an important part of process of becoming skilled. However, learning techniques is not the most important part. I have seen a lot of students get caught up in trying to accumulate new techniques, when all they need to become skilled was right in front of them. \
\
Technical knowledge will teach you what to do in a specific situation. However, that\'92s all it will do. Technical knowledge does not and will never equal a skill. Knowing how to do a technique is not the same as being able to perform it reflexively under pressure. Technical knowledge is a good place to start, but your training methods must progress much further. Knowing a technique is also not the same as fully understanding it or being able to confidently teach it to a wide variety of students from varying cultures and backgrounds. Anyone can show someone else a cool technique. However, the real question is whether or not the instructor has the ability to break down the information into small edible pieces so that even a child could understand what is being said. Another question is whether or not the instructor has the ability to link this new information with other known information, and if he or she can teach principles, concepts and guidelines that lay the foundation for technical knowledge.  Now that we know that technical knowledge is a good starting place, let\'92s move on.\
\

\f0\b Mechanics
\f1\b0 : Mechanics are the individual components of a technique that give leverage over an opponent\'92s body. For example, the individual components that make up the mechanics of the triangle choke with the legs are:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Back of right thigh on left shoulder\
2. Bend of right knee on neck\
3. Grab your right shin with left hand\
4. Left forearm presses against the right side of the opponent\'92s cheek\
5. Squeeze left knee inward towards opponent body, and up towards your own chest\
6. Right arm hugs opponent\'92s left thigh and spins your body & shin perpendicular to spine\
7. Top of right calf presses into back of opponent\'92s neck\
8. The right heel is pulled equal to or in front of the opponent\'92s right shoulder\
9. The bend of left knee goes over your right lower leg\
10. The toes on your right foot point upward\
11. Both heels are pulled to your buttocks\
12. Both knees are squeezed together\
13. Ensure that the opponent\'92s chin is above the inside of your right thigh\
14. Raise your hips up towards the ceiling\
15. Both knees are pushed away from your belly\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
As you can see, the total numbers of components in this simple technique is fifteen. Imagine putting the triangle into combination with an arm lock! You would have at least twenty-four different movements going on at roughly the same time. Do you see how complex two technique combinations are when you take a look at the individual components of each technique? Imagine putting four or five techniques together into one combination. (I
\f2\i  
\f1\i0 spent two years working on my triangle choke, so I understand how complex this subject is.)\
\
With correct mechanics, I rarely get to step fifteen. Most people tap around step seven or eight. Correct mechanics gives me the leverage I need to effectively and efficiently apply this technique. Learning the mechanics of each technique is crucial to developing a skill. If I do not employ good mechanics with my techniques, I will be forced to use speed, strength and explosiveness to compensate for my lack of skill.\
\

\f0\b Precise limb placement
\f1\b0 : Good grappling boils down to two things: pushing and pulling motions. Where you place your limbs will determine how much effort you will spend trying to accomplish your objectives. For example, if my opponent was trying to stay mounted on top of me, and I was about to perform an elbow/knee escape on my left side, where should I place my right elbow?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. On his stomach.\
B. On my stomach.\
C. On his ribs.\
D. Against his left hipbone.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The correct answer would be D, because this is where I will have the most leverage to push against his body. If I push on his stomach, it will give because the stomach is soft. If I push on his ribs, I expose my arm to an arm lock. Yes, I can accomplish the same objective by pushing on the other areas, but I will leave myself open for attack, and I will end up expending more energy in the process.\
\
Precise limb placement will give me the leverage I need to apply the least amount of force to accomplish my goal. Precise limb placement is very closely related to mechanics.\
\

\f0\b Combinations and drills
\f1\b0 : By putting the basic techniques together into various combinations, the student will build a solid repertoire of variables for future grappling matches. Some combos will feel natural at first, while others will feel unnatural, even after lengthy hours of practice. Some combinations are more practical for fighting than others, while others are used strictly for the development of physical attributes like coordination and timing.\
\
Drills link techniques together into logical combinations. What I mean by \'93logical combinations\'94 is that there are certain techniques that naturally lead into other techniques. These logical combinations should be practiced first because they are easier to grasp.\
\
Drills also help to develop attributes specific to the techniques you are trying to employ. For example, if you were trying to develop the attribute of sensitivity, the best drills would be ones that required you to grapple cooperatively and not competitively with your training partners for extended periods of time with your eyes closed. By learning how to feel your training partners' movements and intentions, you can then learn to move with them and not fight against them.\
\
The employment of drills and combinations also helps prepare the student for the use and creation of momentum. For example, when an opponent begins to move his or her weight from left to right, it would be best to follow that movement by pushing or pulling it to the right and allowing the pressure or energy to continue on its original path.\
\
Here is an example of a simple combination:\
\
Person A is mounted on top of Person B.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Person B performs the Upa (bridge and roll) technique on his left side and is successful in his escape.\
2. Person A flows into a spinning arm lock on the opponent\'92s left arm as soon as his back hits the ground.\
3. Person B flows into a knee lock on the opponent\'92s left knee to escape and counter the spinning arm lock.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Drills and combinations are the fundamental training tools that experienced grapplers use to defeat much larger and stronger opponents because they help the practitioner to link information together.\
\

\f0\b Attributes
\f1\b0 : Attributes are those qualities that fuel your techniques. Techniques without attributes are nothing more than flowery movements. Attributes like speed, power, timing, spatial relationship, balance, strength, endurance, flexibility, accuracy, pain tolerance, perceptual awareness, emotional control, sensitivity, explosiveness, coordination and body mechanics give life and vibrancy to your techniques. They make your techniques come alive. They also make people respect them.\
\
Developing attributes specific to the techniques you are employing is crucial to becoming skilled in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. For example, to escape the mount position, the main attributes you need are timing, sensitivity and strength. You need good timing because if you push at the wrong time, you will expend more energy than you need to escape the position, which in turn will mean that you will tire sooner. Good timing is the sense you develop to know when it is the appropriate time to do a specific technique.\
\
Sensitivity gives you the ability to sense your opponent\'92s intentions and move with him or her, instead of against him or her.\
\
You also need a certain amount of strength to be able to push on certain areas of his or her body to get your opponent to move where and when you want him or her to move. These areas include the shoulders, the triceps, and the upper and lower back. You must train these muscles at the specific angles in order to become effective with your pushing motions.\
\
Attributes are an important part of your training program and must not be overlooked. Pure technique rarely wins.\
\

\f0\b Angles of pressure
\f1\b0 : The angle at which you apply pressure, regardless of whether it is a pulling or pushing motion, determines the efficiency and effectiveness of the movement. For example, if your opponent is mounted on top of you, and you turn onto your left side to perform elbow/knee escape, at which angle do you push with your right elbow?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A. Directly over your head\
B. Up towards the ceiling over your left shoulder\
C. Down towards your left hip\
D. Directly to your left\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The correct answer is B, because your hips will be moving in that direction first (
\f2\i the first component of the mechanics of an elbow/knee escape is to raise your hips up off of the ground
\f1\i0 ). Therefore, your right elbow must continue the lifting motion of your hips to further elevate them because the main objective of the escape is to create more space between your hips and the opponent\'92s hips.\
\
Knowing which angle to apply pressure to is very important in lowering the amount of energy you expend to accomplish specific goals. Every move you do in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu involves pushing or pulling the opponent\'92s body at specific angles. If you know the specific angles to apply pressure, your ability to accomplish your objectives will be much easier. \
\
I know that this is a lot of information, but it is very important to learn!\
\

\f0\b Limitations of each technique
\f1\b0 : When you practice your techniques, you must understand that each technique is limited by distance, window of opportunity, current skill level, body type and personality. A technique is limited by distance because of the length of a person\'92s limbs and the space between your body and your opponent's body. For example, it would be difficult to do a spinning arm lock from the guard if your opponent\'92s chest was pressing against your chest. It would also be difficult if the opponent was standing up in your guard and his or her head was far away from you and his or her hands were on your hips. If his chest were pressing against yours, there would not be enough space to perform the arm lock. If her head and arms were far away from you, there would be too much space. Range plays a major part in determining which techniques are viable and which ones are not.\
\
The windows of opportunity also limit techniques. Sometimes, the window of opportunity is so small that to attempt a specific technique would be difficult. For example, if you were grappling an opponent who was smaller, much faster and more experienced than you, it would be very difficult to attempt a spinning arm lock on him from your guard, because your window of opportunity would be so small that your chances of success would be very low. He or she would be much smaller and faster than you are, and more experienced than you. What would be better for you is to attempt an arm lock when you are on top of him or her, say from the mount position. This way, you could use your weight to limit his or her mobility. Plus, your window of opportunity would be much larger.\
\
Current skill levels also play into the equation. Repeatedly sweeping or submitting an equally skilled opponent rarely happens. Doing the same thing on a higher skilled opponent is not likely either. \
\
I know this sound like common sense, but you would be surprised at how many people ask me to teach them how to tap a higher belt. Once, I had a guy who told me the following: \'93I am having problems getting the arm lock on this one guy in my class. He seems to always know when it is coming. What can I do to get him into the arm lock and make him tap? I\'92ve tried what you showed me the last time but it didn\'92t work.\'94 When I asked him the color of his training partner\'92s belt, he told me it was purple. Now, mind you, this student was a white belt with less than six months of experience. He somehow thought that all he had to do was take three or four private lessons from me and he\'92d learn all that he needed to know in order to make a purple belt - someone with ten times his experience - tap! I know he was sincere in his intentions, but he did not understand that experience and skill mean a lot in this sport. I explained this to him on two separate occasions, but he still thought he could somehow cheat the system and get that purple belt to tap.\
\
Additionally, an opponent\'92s current skill level will determine which strategies and techniques you will be able to utilize.\
\
Body types also play a major role in determining which techniques are more suitable for you than others. For example, several years ago I sparred with a guy who was 5\'928" and weighed 350 lbs. He saw me grapple a bunch of guys at a seminar and put all of them in the triangle choke with the legs. He told me that he wanted me to teach him how to do the same thing. I told him that because of his body type - more specifically the thickness of his thighs - he would not be able to do what I did. I also told him how the triangle was a handmade technique for people with long and skinny legs, and that it would be better for him to learn to use his weight on the mount and side mount positions. The thickness and length of his legs would prevent him from ever obtaining a triangle on most students, especially those students with thick necks and/or thick chests.\
\
Your body type will determine which techniques feel more comfortable for you. Also, your body type will determine how you apply certain techniques. For example, students around the world have varying forearm length. Some students have very long forearms because they are very tall while others have short forearms. This makes it impossible to teach the paintbrush and kimura techniques the same to every student. Some will have to grab higher on the opponent\'92s forearm than others. Body type not only determines which techniques are more suitable for a specific body type, but it also determines how they are applied.\
\
Certain techniques are more suitable for certain personalities. Some people are naturally aggressive, while others tend to be passive. Those who are aggressive tend to prefer to be on top of their opponents, while those who are passive don\'92t mind being on their back and working their techniques from that position. Also, chokes, headlocks and neck cranks tend to be the choice of more aggressive students in the beginning. The aggressive personalities tend to push the envelope. They try to create opportunities, whereas the softer, more passive personalities are content with waiting for an opportunity to present itself.\
\

\f0\b Areas of vulnerability
\f1\b0 : Every technique has an area of vulnerability, or an area that is weak to an attack and can be exploited. For example, when you attempt a triangle choke on your opponent from your guard, there is a short period of time where you are susceptible to having your guard passed. This short period of time occurs during the transition from uncrossing your ankles to the precise placement of your legs for the triangle. Understanding the areas of vulnerability for each technique will help you in the long run, especially when it comes to counters.\
\
By taking the time to identify the areas of vulnerability for each technique, you can then begin to practice a series of combinations that expose you to the least amount of vulnerabilities.\
\

\f0\b Counters
\f1\b0 : What is a counter? A counter is a movement that prevents an opponent from accomplishing specific goals. It\'92s an area that most grapplers want to train right away because they do not like tapping to or being controlled by their opponent. The depth at which a person knows counters depends heavily upon his or her current skill level. Most beginners do not know any counters. Those who have been practicing grappling for years know several counters.\
\
However, the real question is how deep your knowledge of counters extends. Let me show you something that will pique your curiosity. Here is \'93passing the guard\'94 broken down into small components (defined objectives):\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Base and posture\
2. Uncross the ankles\
3. Monitor the hip\
4. Pass under, over or around the legs\
5. Place your weight on the opponent\'92s upper torso\
6. Anchor your weight on the opponent\'92s upper torso\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Let\'92s focus on the fifth objective, \'93placing the weight on the opponent\'92s upper torso.\'94 A very common question I am asked by students is, \'93If I am on my back and my opponent is trying to pass my guard, how do I counter his attempt to place his weight on my chest?\'94 Simple: by pushing with your hands on the major chokes points of the body: the head, the shoulders, the hips and the knees. By pushing on these points, you will gain leverage over your opponent\'92s body and be able to create enough space to place him back into your guard. This is counter number one.\
\
The next obvious question is, \'93How can my opponent counter my pushing motions?\'94 Simple: by changing the angles at which he or she applies pressure. If you are pushing up against his or her shoulders and your opponent twists his or her body to the left and to the right, your hands will slip off of the shoulders and go floating off into outer space. Your opponent's weight will fall on top of your chest and he or she will have successfully countered your counter. This is counter number two.\
\
The next obvious question is, \'93How do I counter that?\'94 Simple: by changing the pushing motions from your wrists to your elbows. This is counter number three. \
\
We can keep going on and on and on with these counters. The next question will put us four counters deep. \
\
So where does this counter thing end? It doesn\'92t. It just keeps going on into infinity.\
\
However, what may shock you is this: 
\f2\i Counters always lead back to the basic techniques
\f1\i0 .
\f0\b \

\f1\b0 \

\f0\b Control
\f1\b0 : The last component I want to share with you is control. There are five levels of control:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Full control in your favor\
2. Partial control in your favor (51% or more)\
3. 50% / 50% control by each contestant\
4. Partial control in the opponent\'92s favor (51% or more)\
5. Full control in the opponent\'92s favor\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Grappling matches where two contestants are equally matched spend most of their time in levels two, three and four. Rarely does one contestant have full control over his or her opponent for an extended period of time. Since most of the time in grappling matches is spent with partial control and 50/50 control, much of your training time should focus on these three areas.\
\
The most common positions that contestants find themselves in are the half guard or half mount position. I think the difference between these two positions depends entirely on who has more control. If the person on the bottom has more control, then it should be called the half guard position. If the person on top has more control, then it should be called the half mount position.\
\
The focus of your training at first should be to learn how to prevent someone from controlling you (positional escapes) and then learning how to control the opponent (positional dominance).\
\
I also believe that there is another issue regarding control, and that has to do with learning how to control your emotions. Even if your opponent is mounted on top of you and you are tired, you should be in control of your emotions and not panic. You must remind yourself that all you need is to buy a little time to collect your thoughts and regain your composure. Then you can begin to mount your escape.\
\
Staying in control of your emotions is an important component of training regimen. It should also be an important part of your life!\
\
One last comment about control: good posture allows you to retain a certain amount of control in an inferior position. Good posture will make it possible for you to escape from that inferior position with ease and finesse.\
\

\f0\b Conclusion
\f1\b0 \
\
In this article, I listed ten different training components that I thought were important in my personal development. I hope they gave you a good idea of the process I went through to become a competent instructor and black belt in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu.\
\
I challenge you to quantify your own grappling experience and then identify as well as strengthen the weak areas of your grappling game. I hope this article will make a positive impact on your knowledge of grappling, and I hope you enjoyed reading it, because I enjoyed writing it!\
\
\
\

\f0\b Article #9
\f1\b0 : From White to Black Belt\
\
Allow me to share my observations of the progression through the five belt levels of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. I believe this will help you to understand where you are now and where your journey will lead you in the months and years to come.\
\

\f0\b White Belt\
\

\f1\b0 Plain and simple: at the white belt level, you learn the basics, lay a solid foundation, and you pay your dues. In a nutshell, you\'92ll spend a lot of time on your back. You also end up being the student who does most of the tapping. Keep heart, though; no one is born an expert. \
\
During this period of time, you\'92ll be learning and developing your basics. These basics will not only lay a strong foundation for you, but they will also help you progress through the middle ranks more smoothly. In my day, I\'92ve seen many purple and brown belts that took shortcuts in their white belt days, and this showed itself on the mat. I\'92ve experienced purple belts with phenomenal guards, but then when their guard gets passed, their side mount and front mount escapes look horrible. So, don\'92t try to overlook or by-pass your basics. You\'92ll need them in the years to come.\
\
Now, your ability to grapple successfully as a white belt will largely depend upon previous martial arts experience (a Judo or Wrestling background help a lot), your current fitness level (a high level of fitness helps a lot), your willingness to be disciplined in your training and your ability to learn visually (visual learners adapt and absorb information more quickly).\
\
Students with a wrestling background seem to adapt very well to the similar, but vastly different, grappling methods of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. Those with an athletic background also adapt quite well. Those with a striking background sometimes have a difficult time adapting. The reason is they are usually accustomed to visually grabbing onto the vertical and horizontal lines of walls, doorways, etc., to stabilize themselves, and they feel uncomfortable with the diagonal lines of grappling. They quickly learn that the ground is not as familiar, and that they need time to acquaint themselves with this new perspective.\
\
The most frustrating part about being a white belt is the fact that most of the advanced students will make you tap several times, or at least dominate you in the various positions. I remember feeling this frustration quite well. This frustration usually leads to questions such as, \'93How do I get on top of these guys? How do I escape the side or full mount? How do I tap out the blue and purple belts?\'94 Unfortunately, there\'92s nothing you can do besides getting used to being tapped out and dominated in the various positions. Consider tapping as a form of learning, and a method of paying your dues. As a white belt, I remember feeling like a rag doll in the hands of purple bets. Still, there was nothing I could do about it then. Brazilian Jiu Jitsu is just one of those \'93time in service\'94 endeavors. A person simply has to put in their time. There are no short cuts!\
\
There is encouraging news, though. Blue belts had to go through this stage too, and look at them now! \
\
So keep training. Very soon, you will be one of the blue belts who are tapping out the other white belts in class. And, as you keep training, you\'92ll eventually be able to escape from any position with finesse and ease. Then it will be your turn to watch the frustration of the new white belts. It will also be your turn to encourage them as I have encouraged you.\
\
One final comment:\
\
White belts are expected to rely on speed, power, strength and explosiveness to perform. After all, that is all they know. However, once you don the blue belt, the world of Jiu Jitsu is supposed to change for you, and for your training partners.\
\

\f0\b Blue Belt\

\f1\b0 The blue belt is the belt of basics and survival. Here you focus on escaping from most of the inferior positions, like the mount, the guard, the side mount, the wrestler\'92s cradle and headlock positions. Being able to escape from these inferior positions is paramount to being able to dominate from superior positions as well as make your opponents tap. Additionally, these escapes are a vital component in laying a strong foundation in grappling. \
\
When you, as a blue belt, can easily escape the tightest pin from just about anyone at your academy, you will find yourself on top more. And when you find yourself on top more often, you will have more opportunities for submission. However, you shouldn\'92t jump into submissions too soon because you haven\'92t yet developed the skill to hold someone down with finesse and ease. I have seen too many blue belts rush into submissions, only to become frustrated because they can\'92t finish them. Consequently, the blue belt continuously seeks to learn more submission techniques, thinking that the \'93new\'94 and \'93sneaky\'94 techniques will make them more skilled. Such blue belts don\'92t realize that their inability to finish their opponent is related to their inability to control and dominate their opponents. Naturally, the blue belt feels good to have escaped a hold down and land on top. However, they also feel that they have only one shot at sinking in the submission. The blue belt knows if he fails, he will end up on his back, so he usually stalls, waiting for the opponent to make a mistake.\
\
Once you have a firm grip on positional escapes, you should progress to positional dominance, or the ability to control an opponent.  When you can easily escape from most of the inferior positions with finesse, I recommend taking some time to focus on learning how to control your opponent with greater ease and finesse. Anyone can control her or his opponent by using all of her or his strength for short periods. However, it takes time to develop the skill sets of being able to efficiently hold down an opponent-- especially when they are tired. Take your time and train this area right!\
\
Once you have a good grip on positional escapes and dominance, you can begin to develop a few good submissions. However, try not to become so consumed with them, especially since there are several more areas to train.  Therefore, you can\'92t afford to spend too much time on submissions. Yes, I know that submissions are the more enjoyable part of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. I am not saying that you should not train in them. I am simply saying, \'93Don\'92t focus on them quite yet. Save some of the fun for when you are a purple belt!\'94\
\
As a mid-level blue belt, you may have a large repertoire of positional and submission techniques. However, your depth of knowledge will still be limited due to your experience level. Due to this limitation, you will still require a good amount of speed, power, and explosiveness to affect your techniques. This is to be expected. \
\
Another interesting thing that happens at the blue belt level is that the bar of performance is raised to highly competitive levels.  When I was a white belt, it felt OK to tap to everyone since I was only a white belt. However, once I was promoted to blue belt, many of the bigger, stronger and more talented white belts began to set their cross hairs on me. Many of my once-fellow white belt sojourners wanted the privilege of being able to say, \'93I made a blue belt tap!\'94 It seemed as if overnight the game had become very competitive. That is what made it so interesting, though.\
\
If you think the game sounds interesting at the blue belt level, wait until you hear about the coveted purple belt level.\
\

\f0\b Purple Belt\
\

\f1\b0 The purple belt is the belt of finding and developing momentum and the use of combinations. At this level, the amount of energy you expend to accomplish a specific task should be considerably lower than it used to be. Your game should have a certain amount of grace and finesse to it. In other words, you should not have to rely on speed, power and explosiveness to get you into or out of positions. Your repertoire of techniques should be very high, since at the white and blue belt levels you accumulated a wide array of techniques. At the purple belt stage you will therefore focus on acquiring a deeper level of knowledge as well as the refining and polishing of your techniques. \
\
Now that you\'92re a purple belt, you will start to do things you wished you could do when you were a white belt. In this exciting stage of training you will put the basic techniques together into various two and three-technique combinations, and you will begin to use of momentum. As you gain experience in these areas, you will use these combinations and momentum more and more. And the more you use them, the less you will need speed, power and explosiveness to perform your techniques. \
\
To focus on using momentum, you must train your entire body to read, feel and follow pressure. Up until this point, most things in your Jiu Jitsu training have been visual. But now you have to try and develop a high level of physical sensitivity. Then, you will begin to flow with your opponent and not force techniques with speed and power. Being able to use momentum to flow with your opponent helps when you are grappling training partners who are much bigger and stronger than you. Pushing an opponent\'92s dead weight around is exhausting if you do not have a firm foundation in escapes and positioning. You will need to use the momentum that your opponent gives you as well as create your own momentum when your opponent is not in motion. By utilizing momentum, you will need less strength to perform your techniques and accomplish your goals.\
\
Your purple belt training should also involve tying the basic techniques together into two, three and perhaps five technique combinations. Note I said \'93basic\'94 techniques. The purple belt mentality is very different from the white and blue belt mentality. White and blue belts think the answer to all difficulties is learning more techniques. But the purple belt thinks, \'93I need to refine the techniques I know and then learn how to reflexively put the appropriate techniques together into flowing combinations.\'94 \
\
For example, when I learned the triangle, I thought it was just a matter of throwing my legs over my opponent\'92s head and shoulder and then squeezing my legs together. As I matured in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu, I noticed that there was a specific set of components that made up the technique. And I noticed that these components could in turn be broken down into sub-categories. Now as a black belt, the triangle is a myriad of over 20 different and subtle moving parts that must be put together in a specific order so they can work together towards one goal: applying pressure to the neck. Once I had mastered the triangle, I put it together with other basic techniques, such as the arm lock, the hip bump sweep, the kimura, the twisting wrist lock, the figure four foot lock and the knee lock. Knowing how to combine the triangle with other basic techniques was very important to my development. Once I could combine these techniques and use them with momentum, I felt ready to take on the world and you will, too. Numerous students at my seminars, my school and other schools have said they feel the same way. \
\
In other words, as the purple belt\'92s base of knowledge and experience continues to widen, he or she will gain more and more confidence. Therefore, it is no surprise that highly charged matches occur at this stage, especially among the new purple belts. Why? It is this way because just like the white belts wanted to make the blue belts tap, some of these \'93veteran\'94 blue belts want to make a purple belt tap. In addition, some purple belts go through a period that I call \'93testing their wares\'94. They want to see how they compare to the older, more experienced purple belts, especially those who are about to be promoted to brown belt.\
\
One more area that I feel purple belts should begin to learn, practice and develop is their ability teach this phenomenal art to others. From my perspective, this is a missing area within Jiu Jitsu. I see a ton of very talented practitioners out there, but I don\'92t see the same quantity of adept instructors. \
\
Face-to-face teaching is both a science and an art. The science part is fairly straightforward: Place the seven elements of highly effective communication into your presentation each time you present (
\f2\i Ponder, organize, condense and clarify what you want to communicate; take the available time into consideration; always consider the person or persons with whom you will be communicating before you open your mouth; take the teaching environment into consideration; present your thoughts and ideas; watch your audience, while speaking, to ensure they are following and understanding what you are presenting; review and/or ask questions at the end of your presentation to ensure the audience understood what you just shared with them. In other words, seek feedback to ensure your presentation was clear and on point.
\f1\i0 ) The artistic part of teaching is much more complex because the instructor must possess a heightened sense of awareness to self, others, and the environment, simultaneously. And, this artistic part of teaching involves knowledge and understanding of, as well as a familiarity and confidence with, culture, gender, group dynamics, safety, psychology and a host of other considerations. (
\f2\i FYI, this is something I teach in all of my instructor courses-- be they Brazilian Jiu Jitsu, Jeet Kune Do, Filipino Martial Arts or Grappling. It is also something I present when I am mentoring someone.
\f1\i0 )\
\
So, for all current purple belts reading this article - as well as you senior blue belts - I encourage you to take some time and learn how to effectively communicate this art. You will need it when you become a black belt. You may even need it now to help your instructor teach classes.\
\

\f0\b Brown Belt\
\

\f1\b0 This is the belt of mastery of most of the basic techniques. It is also time to develop something I\'92ll call \'93at-will grappling\'94. Submissions play a big part in brown belt training. For example, when I decide someone is ready for a brown belt, I tell the student that he or she is nine months to twelve months away from a brown belt. Then I give him or her a schedule of tasks to focus on in their training. \
\
Before becoming a brown belt, the purple belt must be develop and train a handful of escapes from every position. I expect brown belts to be able to escape every position both with 
\f2\i and
\f1\i0  without the use of their hands. They must know how to push and pull as well as lift and lower with every portion of their anatomy. I want them to be able to hold other students down both with 
\f2\i and
\f1\i0  without their hands. I want them to use all of the basic techniques in three and five technique combinations. I also expect them to begin refining their submissions. This is where my \'93at-will grappling\'94 training method comes into the picture. I will tell the student, \'93For the next sixty days, all I want you to do is apply straight arm locks when you grapple with the other students. No chokes or leg locks, just arm locks.\'94 Then, once they have completed this journey, I will tell the student, \'93For the two months, all I want you to do are leg locks.\'94 After they have completed this journey, I will tell him or her to focus on chokes for the next couple of month. Thus the student has been able to practice, and refine, one task for an extended period of time. Because they tell the other students that all they are going to do is arm lock them today, their opponents know what the purple belt is going for. This forces the purple belt to be creative in setting up the submission. Since setting up an opponent is a difficult task, I introduce it at the advanced purple belt level. (
\f2\i Even though the lower belt levels yearn to learn it, they are not really ready for this kind of training.
\f1\i0 )\
\
Once the student is pretty good at arm locks, leg locks and the choke, I narrow the scope of his or her training. Next the student will focus on one specific limb. I will say, \'93For the next month, all I want you to do is arm lock your opponent\'92s left arm.\'94 This mandate forces the student to develop a multiplicity of ways to enter into the straight-arm lock on the left arm. However, the student has the confidence to go for these submissions because she or he has a foundation in positional escapes and dominance. Without this foundation, the student would be reluctant to try it for fear of ending up on the bottom again. However, because the student with this foundation can easily escape from any position, and because the student can readily hold down and control his or her opponent, she or he can try for these submissions time after time. This is why I do not place a lot of emphasis on submissions until the purple or brown belt levels. Position and control are the most important tools to develop at first. \
\
Once a student has a mid-level of confidence with his or her basics, he or she is promoted to a brown belt. At this new level, the student must continue to refine his or her game, seeking out weak areas, focusing on and polish them. The student must also find and focus on his or her strengths for an extended time, since these will define the student's character as a black belt. Most black belts have a specialty. For example, some are good at throws, others at collar chokes. I happen to be good at leg locks. I want my brown belts to find a sweet spot and then train it like crazy.\
\

\f0\b Black Belt\
\

\f1\b0 This is the level in which you focus your training on polishing your basic techniques, the counters to these techniques as well as placing your personal signature on the art of Jiu Jitsu. What is your signature? It is your area of specialty. For example, some black belts like me develop an affinity for leg locks. Others focus on throws, takedowns, arm locks, or collar chokes. At the black belt stage, you 
\f2\i really
\f1\i0  begin to refine and redefine the art. Brazilian Jiu Jitsu becomes more personal. Students take advantage of the fact that there\'92s more than one way to skin a Jiu Jitsu cat. They also start to notice what does and does not work on certain types of training partners and act accordingly. \
\
But let me stop here for a moment. These things apply only to the black belt who is still refining, growing, learning and adapting. They do not apply to the black belt who is stuck in his or her ways, paralyzed by a resistance to change. \
\
To some degree, the learning process starts over again at the black belt level. If a new black belt is honest, he or she will realize how little he or she knows about this art. The black belt should also accept the fact that there is a HUGE difference between a new black belt and a veteran black belt who has ten years of consistent training after they were promoted to black belt. \
\
For example, since I have had a black belt for a few years, I am relatively new, or \'93a white belt amongst other black belts.\'94 But when you look at someone like Professor Royler Gracie, he\'92s had his black belt for several years before I even thought about training in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. He has so many more tens of thousands of hours competing, teaching and training than I have, there\'92s no way to compare my black belt with his. As a new black belt, I am on a new journey, one just as long and hard as the one I had traveled to reach this point. \
\
At the black belt level, your technical expertise is high. Of course, you may not be able to skillfully perform all your technical knowledge as well as you\'92d like. You will have some favorite moves you like to use most of the time. However, over time, if you continue to train in all areas with the same intensity as you did for earlier belts, your skill level will continue to increase. The only difference is that your game will become much smaller. Rather than work on new techniques, you will polish and refine the old ones. You will work on small, subtle movements that will make the art much easier and more enjoyable.  You will make smaller movements to accomplish the same objectives as before! Let me give you an example:\
\
To a black belt, the difference between escaping an inferior position and being held down is often the difference between your hips moving one or two inches! The black belt\'92s feel and sensitivity of the game is much higher than the white, blue and even purple belt\'92s game. The black belt will begin to move like a shadow, flowing effortlessly around an opponent\'92s movement, following his or her path. The black belt will find the opponent\'92s weaknesses and then exploit them.\
\
Your knowledge and ability to execute counters will also be much higher. For example, when someone performs a basic technique, you will be three or four moves ahead of him or her. You will know that for every move, there are several counters, and for every counter, there are several more counters. Let me show this to you another way.\
\
Let\'92s call the bridge and roll escape from the mount (Upa) technique \'93A\'94. As shown below, technique \'93A\'94 has ten counters to it: \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A-1 		Straight-arm lock\
A-2 		Catch your balance with your head\
A-3 		Catch your balance with your right foot\
A-4		Catch your balance with you left foot\
A-5 		Catch your balance with your far arm\
A-6 		Spin to knee on stomach\
A-7		Spin to side mount\
A-8		Turn onto your side\
A-9  		Roll and sweep to mount \
A-10		Triangle choke with the arms\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Let\'92s now take A-1, the first counter (Straight arm lock) to technique \'93A\'94 bridge and roll escape from the mount). A-1 also has ten counters, as shown:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A-1.1		Heel hook\
A-1.2 		Sit up and crush escape\
A-1.3		Sit up and crush escape to knee lock\
A-1.4		Sit up and remove leg off face\
A-1.5		Sit up and spin to opposite side\
A-1.6		Roll over shoulder escape\
A-1.7		Basic elbow/knee escape\
A-1.8		Basic elbow/knee escape, go to the back\
A-1.9		Basic elbow/knee escape\
A-1.10 	Shin lock \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
I could keep going on and on with counters. I could list the ten counters for A-2, A-3, and so on. Then I could list the counters for A-1.1, A-1.2, and so on.\
\
Do you see how long this training could go on for?\
\
I hope this article has helped you to understand the progression from white to black belt. The process of becoming skilled at Brazilian Jiu Jitsu is very fun, frustrating, time consuming and nerve racking. However, it is also very rewarding. There\'92s nothing like obtaining a useable, repeatable set of skills on the mat and being able to take them with you wherever you go.\
\
I wish you continued success in your journey. Keep training hard and smart!\
\
\
\

\f0\b Article #10
\f1\b0 : Grappling Instructor Manual Excerpt\
\
In the middle 1990\'92s, I began answering questions online about Brazilian Jiu Jitsu, Jeet Kune Do, self-defense and other martial arts related topics. In answering tons of questions, the idea of developing a structured progressive method of instruction for Jiu Jitsu kept coming up in conversation after conversation. Since I was powerless to affect the powers that be in the Jiu Jitsu world, I decided to do something about this missing piece of the puzzle. I decided to write a mini-manual and teach a basic grappling instructor\'92s course. I called it \'93The Apprentice Grappling Instructor Course\'94 for the following reasons:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 - I used the word \'93Apprentice\'94 because I wanted these instructors (and the general public) to understand that they were becoming a part of an apprenticeship program. While no one can make a competent instructor in a week or a weekend, I wanted the general public and the students who took the course to know that they were beginning a journey with me - because the word \'93Apprentice\'94 implies that a person is just beginning to learn the process.\
\
- I used the word \'93Grappling\'94 because I wanted to give credit to the styles of martial art, and their instructors, who had helped me become the grappler that I was. I disliked how the Brazilian Jiu Jitsu community on one hand was very critical of other styles of martial art, but on the other hand were training the leg locks of Sambo and the throws and takedowns of Judo and Wrestling - but yet they were still calling their style \'93Brazilian Jiu Jitsu.\'94 So, to give credit where credit was due, I used the word grappling because Brazilian Jiu Jitsu did not train leg locks, throws, takedown or holds in the 1990\'92s. So, in my grappling course, I gave credit to the styles that positively had impacted my method of grappling - specifically Brazilian Jiu Jitsu, Judo, Greco-Roman Wrestling, Freestyle Wrestling, Sambo, Dumog and Chin Na.\
\
- I used the words \'93Instructor Course\'94 because my courses are different from others. Instead of just teaching a bunch of techniques to the students, I wanted to teach them HOW to teach. In other words, I wanted them to know the science and art of effectively communicating their thoughts and ideas, how to control and influence group dynamics, different methods of effectively dealing with the myriad of problems that present themselves at an academy (
\f2\i e.g. hygiene / gender / money / attitude issues, problem students, etiquette, getting / keeping clients, teaching to various groups, understanding the unstated needs and demands of the clients, etc\'85
\f1\i0 ).\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Here is an excerpt from the manual:\
\
Now that you have completed the Apprentice Level Grappling Instructor Course, and have logged a handful of hours of the teaching and training the techniques you've learned, I'm sure this question has crossed your mind: "What's next?" \
\
Here is an overview of how I want you to train for the first few years as an instructor in my association:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. Develop good fundamental movements.\
2. Know, and more fully understand, the mechanics of your basic techniques.\
3. Practice your basic techniques to the point of reflex.\
4. Put the basics together into simple combinations.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Now, let me go into further detail on each one of these.\
\
For starters, the basic techniques and training methods you've learned will help you lay a solid foundation in the grappling arts. These basics develop the fundamental movements of grappling. When I say fundamental movements, I am referring to core movements that are found in every technique. Let me give you a couple of examples of this: \
\
The bridge and roll escape from the mounted position is technique designed to help you develop high and powerful vertical hip movement. Without this kind of hip movement, your escapes will depend on the strength and endurance of your shoulders and upper arms. \
\
Additionally, the bridge and roll escape will help your offensive game. By developing a strong bridge, your ability to finish your submissions (
\f2\i i.e. straight arm locks, chokes and leg locks
\f1\i0 ) will become stronger.\
\
Here's another example: The elbow / knee escape from the side mount position. This technique is designed to help you develop and strengthen lateral hip movement. When an opponent can pin your hips down and keep them in one place, he or she will have an easier time holding you down from the side mount position. Good lateral hip movement is the key to being able to escape the mount and side mount positions. Additionally, lateral hip movement is an absolute requirement for being able to aggressively attack from the open guard position.\
\
Next, explain to your students the importance of [a] learning the proper mechanics of a technique, [b] practicing the technique to the point where they can do it perfect, each and every time, and then [c] developing the timing of the technique. Let your students know that "knowing" a technique is just the beginning. Now the hard work begins.\
\
Here is a brief list of techniques and the fundamental movements they need to develop:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \'95 Upa - posture and bridge and roll\
\'95 Elbow/knee (mount) - posture and lateral hip movement\
\'95 Under the leg guard pass - posture, proper head movement and base with movement\
\'95 Going to the knees - posture, proper hip movement and precise arm placement\
\'95 Headlock escape - posture, proper hip movement and precise arm placement\
\'95 Elbow/knee (side mount) - posture, lateral hip movement, push with knees\
\'95 Three chokes / three arm locks - body mechanics (use of the entire body to perform the choke or lock)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Second, I highly recommend you take a look at the individual components of each technique and determine the reason or reasons why you do what you do. It will help you to memorize the techniques as well as self-analyze why a particular technique is not working. Besides, sooner or later, one of your students is going to ask you why he should do a particular movement the way you told him to do it. \
\
For example, let's take a look at the Upa (bridge and roll) technique. A student might ask, "Why is it so important to trap the arm at the elbow and the wrist? Can't I just trap the arm anywhere on the forearm and still be effective with the technique?" Now, do you know the answer to this question off the top of your head? If you do, great! If you don\'92t, please go back to the beginning of this manual and review your mechanics.\
\
Let me ask you another question that a student might ask you, "Why is it important to raise my hips up as high as possible? Can't I just raise them up a little bit and push the guy over?" Again, do you know the answer? \
\
By digging deeper into the techniques and training methods you think you already know, you will make a lot of personal discoveries. Some of these personal discoveries will contradict your previous knowledge, and that\'92s OK. The goal is progress!\
\
What will you do when you discover a more efficient way of doing a technique? Will you throw out the old technique? If so, why? If not, why will you keep the old technique around? I do this in my teaching. There are some things I\'92ve kept around since my early days of training with the Gracie Brothers. I keep them around for a specific set of reasons. However, there are other things I have thrown out-- at least for myself--because they no longer work like they used to and because the world Jiu Jitsu has changed so much. Helio Gracie\'92s methods worked well for him in his day. But some of these methods no longer work like they used to-- because so much has changed.\
\
So, here are a handful of things to keep in mind as you teach: \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1. \'93Old techniques\'94 are old techniques for you. \
2. New techniques are new for you. \
3. Inefficient techniques are inefficient techniques for you. \
4. What works for you does not necessarily work for each and every one of your students. \
5. What works for everyone else may not work for you. \
6. What is inefficient for others may be efficient for you. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
In other words, everything is relative to one's own personal experience. This is very important for you to know and understand, because it will affect your students and it will also affect your business!\
\
My goal as your instructor is to "teach you how to fish" so that one day you can fish on your own and personalize your own fishing habits. It is not my intention to spoon-feed you a boneless fish each and every day. That would make you dependent upon me for every little thing. You are an individual. You have your own life. You have your own experiences. I am just a guide to your own personal development. By encouraging you to dig for yourself, as well as teaching you how to dig, I will help you to obtain the personal fulfillment of self-discovery.\
\
Encouraging you to dig deeper into what you already know is one way of getting you to intimately know your subject matter. Intimate knowledge of your subject matter is something students expect or demand of their instructors.\
\
Third, it is imperative that you practice these basics until you can perform them perfectly, every time, without thought. You must practice until your muscles memorize and feel them. The reason is simple: When combinations are introduced, if the basics are performed sloppily, the combination itself will be sloppy.\
\
Plus, when I introduce you to the concept of transitions (acknowledging, defining, controlling and manipulating them), if your basic techniques are sloppy or imprecise, you will not be able to fully grasp the concept of transitions because you will still be struggling with (and thinking about) the basic techniques. If you cannot define, control and manipulate transitions, you will not be able to use strategy to set up your opponent for a sweep, choke, or arm lock. As you can see, the basics lay a foundation for you to build off.\
\
Yes, I know that practicing the basics is boring. Yes, I know many of you think you already know them. However, I strongly suggest you continue practicing these basics. To this day, I continue to refine my basics, and I've been doing this stuff for many years. Just recently I have made some new discoveries about some of my basics. I've discovered a few more efficient methods for performing side mount escapes. I wish I knew this new stuff years ago because it would have helped me. If I can continue to practice and refine my basics, I think you should consider it as well.\
\
Thus far, I've talked about developing fundamental movements, digging deeper into your understanding of the basics, and then practicing and refining the basics. These three components lay a solid foundation for the intermediate level Jiu Jitsu.\
\
Before I move on to the next topic, I'd like to interject something here, something that I feel is very important as an instructor and as a lifelong student: Taking notes. Take lots and lots of notes. They will help you to remember techniques and training methods. They will also help you remember all of the subtle details that make the technique easier to perform. These notes will help you to remember the fine, subtle details that are lost with time. I personally have over 600 pages of notes I've taken over the past fourteen years. They help me to remember things I forgot years ago.\
\
Once you have a firm grasp on the basics, you can begin to put them together into simple two and three technique combinations. Once you can perform simple combinations, you should then move on to more complex three and five technique combinations.\
\
Once you can effortlessly put the basics techniques together into simple and complex combinations, you are primed and ready for the intermediate Jiu Jitsu level.\
\
The intermediate Jiu Jitsu level is more concept-based training than technique-based training. It makes you rethink your basics, as well as challenges you physically and mentally. The intermediate Jiu Jitsu level requires a firm understanding and proficiency with the basics. I will write more about this in another article.\
\
I hope this helps to secure your mindset on those areas that matter most!\
\
}