{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Technical;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12040\viewh15840\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Brazilian Jiu-jitsu: an interesting discovery \
\
Allow me to share with you a part of my grappling journey that lead to an interesting discovery. My journey began back in 1986 at the IMB Academy in Torrance, California. I was involved in several classes at the time (e.g. JKD, catch-as-catchcan wrestling, Muay Thai, etc...) I was also involved with Shoot fighting at the Inosanto Academy in Marina del Rey, California. Several years later, thanks to one of my friends, I was introduced to the Gracies and their brand of Jiu Jitsu at their Academy in Torrance, California. \
\
The very first skill I developed in grappling was "the ability to effectively apply the straight foot lock." I would like to show you how I trained the straight foot lock and became so good at it. \
\
To become proficient at the straight foot lock, I used the following plan: \
\
First, I focused my training on the mechanics of the foot locks. When I say "mechanics", I am speaking of the ten (10) individual components that make the technique work. Good mechanics will give me leverage by allowing me to apply the smallest amount of effort to achieve the greatest amount of pressure on my opponent\'89s ankle. \
\
Second, I focused my training on the development of attributes specific to employment of the straight foot lock. The main attributes needed to develop the foot lock were strength and explosiveness in my lower and middle back, as well as isometric strength in my shoulders and biceps. The training I employed involved the use of weights as well as calisthenics. \
\
Third, I focused on maintaining control of the opponent from the entry into the straight foot lock until I had completed the mechanics of it. If I could not could not control my opponent, I wouldn't continue to apply the lock. I would immediately change to another technique. Establishing and maintaining control over an opponent is so important to effectively applying the straight foot lock that I can not over emphasize it! \
\
Fourth, I focused on finding new ways to enter into the foot lock. I would explore every conceivable superior and inferior position I knew. (This is where the fun began!) Some days, I would make a concerted effort to find a new entry into the foot lock. Other days, new entries would just plop themselves into my lap. For example, I would be grappling with one of my students and have a new entry miraculously appear out of no where. (To this day, I still experience this exhilarating phenomenon!) \
\
Fifth, I focused my training on escapes from the straight foot lock. Learning how to escape from this devastating leg lock was crucial to the overall development of my grappling game. It gave me the confidence to go for a leg lock against an opponent who was adept at leg locks himself. (Note: Any time you go for a leg lock, you almost always expose your own leg!) \
\
Finally, I focused on my training on counters to the foot lock. Some counters lead to escapes, while other counters lead to other leg locks. And, I was surprised to find out that some counters lead to other submissions (e.g. arm locks, chokes and triangles.) \
\
Once I had learned about ten (10) different counters to the straight foot lock, I made an interesting discovery: I discovered that these advanced counters "lead me back to the basics." No matter how deep my knowledge of counters grew, no matter how advanced I thought I was becoming, the counters were leading me back to the most fundamental moves that I had neglected in my early years of training. Wow! Was that was a joyful and painful revelation to me! \
\
The straight foot lock is a wonderful tool. I have used it to win numerous matches in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu and Open Grappling tournaments in Southern California. What I find interesting about the whole process is how the same technique I used to win so many grappling matches turned out to be the vehicle used to propel me back to the basics! This one tool helped me to understand "what is", as well as "what isn't", important in the game of grappling. \
\
I encourage you to refine your basics because you can never become too good at them! The straight foot lock was the vehicle that helped me get back to basics. I hope you find a technique that inspires you to return to the basics! \
\
Good training to you, \
\
Roy Harris\
}