{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2870
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 My Two Cents On Martial Arts Training\
\
After having numerous conversations with various people in recent weeks, I feel compelled to share the following about martial arts training:\
\
When a person says or writes the words "Martial Arts", the two words are not really that descriptive. To me, saying "Martial arts" is like saying "Vehicle" - because there are so many types of vehicles.\
\
From my experience, martial arts training as a whole has something for everyone because there are five (5) broad categories of styles. Here they are:\
\
1. Traditional\
\
2. Eclectic\
\
3. Sportive\
\
4. Holistic\
\
5. Combative\
\
Some students really enjoy the more traditional styles - which in general emphasize the development of the person as a primary goal (e.g. Patience, honor, discipline, consideration, courtesy, etc...). Yes, self-defense isa part of this training, but only after the inner man or woman has been developed and matured.\
\
Some students like the eclectic styles because they emphasize a mix of self-defense and physical fitness. Chu Fen Do, Krav Maga and Brazilian Jiu Jitsu are three styles that can fall into this categories. All three styles have borrowed techniques and training methods from other systems. And, there is an emphasis on physical fitness and self-defense within each style.\
\
Some students like the sportive aspect of certain styles. Boxing, Wrestling, Judo and Taekwondo are the most well known sportive styles. Sportivestyles place a heavy emphasis on competing regularly. And while there is nothing wrong with competition, it must be stated that competition is not for all students. This is because there is a risk-to-reward ratio between the enjoyment of competition and the chance and frequency of injury (whether in training for the competition or the competition itself). I know this from personal experience as well as from an inbox full of emails from students - all over the world - who've told me, "It's just not worth it any more." So, while competitive styles have their "pros" (e.g. fitness, camaraderie, team building, etc...), they definitelyhave their "cons" (e.g. injuries that have the potential to adversely affect your normal life [e.g. driving, family, hobbies] as well as your professional life). Take a look at this 10 minute long video to see the life-long injuries sustained by competitive styles of martial arts:\
\
MMA, Boxing, Kickboxing\
\
Some students like the holistic styles of martial arts because of the emphasis on stress reduction, relaxation, calmness, strengthening and stretching. Tai Chi and Kalaripayattu are two examples of styles that place an emphasis on physical and mental health within their training.\
\
Finally, there are some combative styles out there that focus exclusively on maiming and killing. These methods are hidden from the general public for obvious reasons.\
\
Having written all of the above, let me share with you my thoughts on all of these stylistic interpretations of movements:\
\
Since no one style has it all, why not allow others train the way they want to train and let's all have fun in our respective arts. In other words, if one person is into self-defense and I happen to be into fitness and another person is into the mental challenge of his or her chosen art and another person is into camaraderie and friendship, AND, we are all happy with our "style" of training, why can't we all accept the different paths that each person has chosen - especially since we are all happy?\
\
I write all of this to encourage everyone to have fun with your chosen "style", and, don't know worry whatothers are saying. If you are truly enjoyingyour style of training, then that's all that matters!\
\
Also, as an individual who has trained in a lot of styles (27) and with a lot of different instructors (51), as someone who has learned everything from "talk, walk, run" to "take a life by doing this" - as well as many things in between - I can tell you this:\
\
Martial arts is a hobby for most of us. And, as a hobby, it should be fun, interesting, challenging and enjoyable. If it's not, then maybe you are involved in the wrong style, with the wrong instructor or the wrong organization. And if you are, I want you to take a look around and see what else is out there. There's a big world of martial arts and there are styles from so many different countries (e.g. there are style of martial art from the USA, Iceland, Germany, Cambodia, Italy, France, Russia, Vietnam, Ethiopia, Switzerland, Indonesia, China, Japan, Brazil, Korea, Mongolia, The Philippines, Malaysia, Greece, Persia, Burma, India, England, M\'e9xico, Colombia, Turkey, Spain, Finland, Thailand and elsewhere).\
\
So, martial arts training had a lot to offer all of us. And, no one style or instructor (myself included) can offer you everything. Take some time to find what fits you, your personality, your body type and personality and stay with it.\
\
There's a lot to learn, practice and enjoy in this journey!\
\
My two cents...\
\
Roy Harris\
\
Copyright \'a92016 Roy Harris. All Rights Reserved.}