{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2870
\cocoascreenfonts1\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13740\viewh10580\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Subject: If only I do this every day!\
\
Michael is the kind of guy you love to hate. He is always in a good mood and always has something positive to say. When someone would ask him how he was doing, he would reply, " I were any better, I would be twins!"\
\
He was a natural motivator. If an employee was having a bad day, Michael was there, telling the employee how to look on the positive side of the situation. Seeing this style really made me curious, so one day I went up to Michael and asked him, "I don't get it! You can't be a positive person all of the time. How do you do it?"\
\
Michael replied, "Each morning I wake up and say to myself, Mike, you have two choices today. You can choose to be in a good mood or you can choose to be in a bad mood. I choose to be in a good mood. Each time something bad happens, I can choose to be victim or I can choose to learn from it. I choose to learn from it. Every time someone comes to me complaining, I can choose to accept their complaining or I can point out the positive side of life. I choose the positive side of life."\
\
"Yeah, right, it's not that easy," I protested. "Yes, it is," Michael said, "Life is all about choices. When you cut away all the junk, every situation is a choice. You choose how you react to situations. You choose how people affect your mood. You choose to be in a good mood or bad mood. The bottom line: It's your choice how you live life"\
\
I reflected on what Michael said. Soon thereafter, I left the Towe Industry to start my own business. We lost touch, but I often thought about him when I made a choice about life instead of reacting to it.\
\
Several years later, I heard that Michael was involved in a serious accident, falling some 60 feet from a communications tower. After 18 hours of surgery and weeks of intensive care, Michael was released from the hospital with rods placed in his back.\
\
I saw Michael about six months after the accident. When I asked him how he was, he replied. "If I were any better, I'd be twins. Wanna see my scars?" I declined to see his wounds, but did ask him what had gone through his mind as the accident took place.\
\
"The first thing that went through my mind was the well-being of my soon to be born daughter." Michael replied. "Then, as I lay on the ground, I remembered that I had two choices: I could choose to live or I could choose to die. I chose to live."\
\
"Weren't you scared? Did you lose consciousness?" I asked. Michael continued, "...the paramedics were great. They kept telling me I was going to be fine. But when they wheeled me into the ER and I saw the expressions on the faces of the doctors and nurses, I got really scared. In their eyes, I read 'he's a dead man." I knew I needed to take action."\
\
"What did you do?" asked. "Well there was a big burly nurse shouting questions at me," said Michael. "She asked if I was allergic to anything. "Yes, I replied." The doctors and nurses stopped working as they waited for my reply. I took a deep breath and yelled, "Gravity."\
\
Over their laughter, I told them, 'I am choosing to live. Operate on me as if I am alive, not dead."\
\
Michael lived, thanks to the skill of his doctors, but also because of his amazing attitude.\
\
I learned from him that every day we have the choice to live fully. Attitude, after all, is everything.\
\
"Therefore do not worry about tomorrow, for tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own."  Matthew 6:34\
\
\
\
\
Subject: Poor or Rich??\
\
\
One day a father and his rich family took his young son on a trip to the country with the firm purpose of showing him how poor people can be. They spent a day and a night at the farm of a very poor family.  When they got back from their trip the father asked his son, "How was the trip?" "Very good, dad." "Did you see how poor people can be?" the father asked. "Yeah"  "And what did you learn?" The son answered, " I saw that we have a dog at home and they have four. We have a pool that reaches to the middle of the garden, they have a creek that has no end.  We have imported lamps in the garden, they have the stars.  Our patio reaches to the front yard, they have the whole horizon."\
\
When the little boy was finished, his father was speechless.  His son added, "Thanks dad for showing me how poor we are." Isn't it true it all depends on the way you look at things?  If you have love, friends, family, health, good humor and a positive attitude towards life --- you've got everything......  You can't buy any of these things.\
\
You can have all the material possessions you can imagine, provisions for the future, etc., but if you are poor of spirit, you have nothing.....\
\
\
}