{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Where am I today in my journey with Christ, in 2025? Well, having fully recovered from my Wayward Christian days, I am now filled with His Spirit and have more knowledge, understanding, experience, grace, wisdom, insight, and patience than I had when I first began. And, I am making the daily/weekly/monthly efforts to be active within my Lord\'92s Eternal Kingdom.\
\
Here\'92s a peek at some of the things I\'92ve been involved with in recent years:\
\
For a little over three years, I was an assistant pastor at a local church. This experience gave me a bird\'92s-eye view\'97as well as a ton of experience\'97on what it\'92s like being a pastor (and how challenging it can be), church leadership, and church culture. I learned a great deal about people, culture, religion, and myself. And I am very thankful for the experience!\
\
What do I do best? I am a listener. I can listen for hours to help people feel heard and understood. To date, my longest listening session\'97without talking, giving advice, or asking questions\'97was eight hours and two minutes. At the end of the session, the woman thanked me for listening and for not telling her what she needed to do.\
\
NOTE: Active listening is a forgotten skill in today\'92s world!\
\
I have helped and encouraged former Christians return to their Lord, renew their faith and trust in Him, and draw closer to Him.\
\
Through listening and a bit of sharing, I\'92ve helped numerous married couples nurse their marriage back to physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual health\'97and helped them circumvent divorce using two books as workbooks:\
\
\'95 For Men Only\
\'95 For Women Only (See the URLs on the page below)\
\
During the late-evening and early-morning hours, I\'92ve helped many people shift their focus from suicide to life.\
\
I have helped several Agnostics, Atheists, Buddhists, and other religionists find Christ\'97not the religion of Christianity\'97 and begin a new relationship with Him!\
\
I could go on, but I think you get the point. Christ has once again taken center-stage in my life. I am busy about His Kingdom, and my heart is full!\
\
I feel like the Prodigal Son who has finally returned home. (You can read that story here or watch it at the URLs listed below.) And I now view myself as both son and servant of The King. As His son, I have a responsibility to Him and His Kingdom! NOTE: This has nothing to do with \'93being a good person\'94 or \'93doing good deeds.\'94 Rather, it has everything to do with sonship! If you don\'92t yet know what that means, please read my upcoming article entitled \'93Sonship.\'94 And as a servant, I have a responsibility to serve in His Kingdom and use the TIME, TALENTS and RESOURCES He\'92s given me to further His Kingdom.\
\
As I look over the course of my journey in Christ, I see a lot of bad things that happened to me. I also see a lot of horrible things I said and did. But\'85 When I look at how faithful He\'92s been\'97how He has provided for and protected me\'97I now more fully understand the story our Lord told about forgiveness and gratitude. (Read this story ) Also, please listen to a Gospel song that deeply touched my heart\'97because it spoke to me about God\'92s faithfulness to me in my darkest hour!\
\
I hope this look at a handful of way points on my journey with Christ has been informative, enlightening, and instructive.\
\
This journey began with two important questions:\
\
\'93Does God Exist?\'94\
\'93Does He Know Of And Care For Me?\'94\
\
\'85and it is currently at a point where my mind and heart are filled with a love, peace, joy, a confidence and an assurance to which nothing in this world can compare!\
\
I share this with all who are willing to listen and ponder whether they\'92d like to meet my Lord and Savior themselves (before death) \'97so that they too can experience a peace beyond anything this world can offer.\
\
Thank you for your time!\
\
As always, if you have questions or comments, you can email me at the address listed below. I am more than willing to listen and/or talk with you about everything and anything.}