{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Every Christ-follower has a beginning\'97a moment in time when the questions started, the doubts surfaced, or the journey toward faith quietly began. For me, it started in the heart of the Midwest, surrounded by religion on one hand and rejection of it on the other. What follows is not a polished testimony or a dramatic story designed to impress. Rather, it\'92s an honest look at how a skeptical, stubborn kid stumbled his way toward Christ\'97one question, one friend, and one unexpected moment at a time.\
\
My Early View of Church and Religion\'85\
I was born and raised in the Midwest. My mother and grandparents on both sides of the family were avid churchgoers. They attended a local church each Sunday morning. Unfortunately, we never prayed, read the Bible, or talked about the Lord during the week.\
\
Following in My Father\'92s Footsteps\'85\
On the other hand, my father was different. He had had his fill of \'93church.\'94 I remember him telling me that he had attended church for many years. And because of all the negative things he had experienced at church (e.g., hypocrisy, backbiting, betrayal, etc\'85), he was stuck somewhere between an agnostic and an atheist.\
\
As a young boy, I was required to attend church with my parents. Then, when I was eight years old, my parents pulled me aside one day and gave me a choice. They said I could continue going to church or stop going altogether. I chose to stop going to church because (A) I felt church was boring, (B) I did not believe in God, and (C) based on what I had seen and experienced (e.g., the hypocrisy and the mean-spirited things I had witnessed from people who called themselves \'93Christian\'94), I didn\'92t think a god could exist.\
\
Long story short, I ended up following in my father\'92s agnostic/atheistic footsteps. Why? I don\'92t know. Maybe it was because I fell into the same trap as others\'97where I (A) watched the lives of people who were supposed to be Christian, (B) listened to the things that came out of their mouths, and (C) didn\'92t see (or hear) anything that made them different from anyone else! So, I just assumed that being a Christian was like being an atheist\'97except that agnostics/atheists had more fun and weren\'92t ruled by a set of old, archaic rules, regulations, procedures, and protocols for life.\
\
The Friend Who Wouldn\'92t Give Up\'85\
Fast-forward to my early teens. A good friend of mine, Les P., began talking with me about Christ. To make a long story short, we argued about God, religion, and Christianity for nearly three years. Finally, to get him off my back, I agreed to go with him to his church just one time.\
\
After attending a church service just one time at his church, I saw a difference between their people and other people from the churches I had attended in my earlier years. The people at his church APPEARED to be MORE SERIOUS about their religion! Still, it wasn\'92t something I was interested in. So, I stopped going.\
\
Something Stirred Within\'85\
Next came a couple of events in my life that caused a ripple in my thinking. As a result of this event, I began to wonder:\
\
\'95 Does God exist?\
\'95 Does He care for me?\
\'95 Eventually, I wandered back to my friend\'92s church to see if I could glean some answers\'97mainly because the people there seemed to be more serious and knowledgeable about the whole \'93God\'94 thing than what I had seen at the other churches. I ended up attending this church off and on for roughly a year\'97before praying and inviting Christ into my life.\
\
An Unspectacular Prayer\'85\
What was it like praying for the first time? It was\'85 unspectacular! I didn\'92t feel anything. I didn\'92t see anything. I wasn\'92t sure what\'97if anything\'97had happened. But I still felt a hunger to know more about God deep within me. I couldn\'92t explain it. So I kept going to this church!\
\
\
While it was true I had asked for forgiveness and invited Christ into my life, it was also true that there was no change within my heart or lifestyle. But still, I kept pursuing Christ.\
\
\
The Turning Point: Baptism Night\'85\
Finally, I decided to get serious and get baptized. And on the night I was baptized, an amazing event happened! I\'92ll talk more in-depth about it in the next section.\
\
\
If you have questions or comments, you can email me at the address listed below and let's talk.\
\
Roy}