{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 What\'92s next for me? Here\'92s a quick outline:\
\
\'95 Pursue holiness with greater effort.\
\'95 Learn more and pursue humility and giving.\
\'95 Continue to teach, write, encourage, uplift, and inspire others in their journey with Christ.\
\'95 Help more curious non-believers find Christ \'97 because doing so is so rewarding.\
\'95 Continue my study of Scripture, commentaries, Hebrew, Greek, lexicons, and related topics.\
\
HOLINESS\'85\
Holiness is a quality of God that refers to \'93separation\'94 FROM all that is evil and UNTO all that is good. When the Scriptures teach Believers to pursue holiness, it refers to drawing closer to Him and becoming more like Him in speech, deed, thought, and behavior.\
\
NOTE: When a person goes through the process of becoming a Christ-Follower, it\'92s called Justification. What comes next is the process of Sanctification. THIS is the process of holiness. (Later, I will write a more detailed article on this topic.)\
\
\
HUMILITY\'85\
Humility and giving should be a part of every Believer\'92s repertoire. Many years ago, I learned that humility is the oil of life that can ease the friction and tension caused by frail and imperfect beings interacting with each other!\
\
GIVING\'85\
Giving is one of the best ways we can emulate our Lord! When I write of giving, I\'92m talking about sacrificial giving. How does that look? Consider the following:\
\
Sensing a need and feeling \'93an unction\'94 to empty one\'92s bank account and give the money to a verified ministry making a difference in God\'92s Kingdom. Have I done this? Yes!\
Feeling led to empty one\'92s wallet into a church\'92s offering plate (not my home church). Have I done this? Yes!\
Ministering to someone, knowing that you\'92re going to be late for an important meeting or event. Have I done this? Yes!\
\
TEACHING.\
I never wanted to be a Bible teacher. As a matter of fact, the Scriptures warn us about becoming a teacher of God\'92s laws: James chapter 3, verse 1\'962\
\
But\'85 since I have fallen into and accepted my position, I will do my best\'97and teach directly from my heart!\
\
HELPING OTHERS FIND CHRIST\'85\
This is the greatest joy in my life!\
\
I love it when someone who is unsure of the whole Christian thing\'97because of all the mistakes made by imperfect lives lived by some Christians\'97brings honest, difficult questions to me. We discuss the topic (and related topics) at length. And then, when they reach that moment where they pour out their hearts to Christ in prayer, have a personal encounter with Him\'97and then tell me about it\'97my heart beams with glee!!!\
\
CONTINUED STUDY\'85\
Because God is \'93The Greatest Conceivable Being\'94 in the universe\'97as stated by Dr. William Lane Craig\'97and because He is infinite in nature, it is possible for us, as finite creatures, to study Him (and all related topics) for a trillion times a quadrillion lifetimes\'97and still only scratch the surface of understanding our Lord.\
\
So, I want to continue to learn more about:\
\
God,\
His nature,\
His being,\
His laws,\
His Kingdom,\'85 and many associated topics for as long as I can!\
\
And I will do so with the intent of helping, encouraging, inspiring, and teaching my fellow human beings\'97and Christ-Followers\'97to draw near to Him!\
\
What\'92s next for you\'85\
Well\'85 if you\'92ve listened to and/or read all seven parts of my journey in Christ, and since you\'92ve read this far, I want to encourage you to read Part Two of What\'92s Next\'97which you can find at the URL listed below.\
\
If you have questions or comments, you can email me at the address listed below.}