{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 The Night Everything Changed\'85\
\
I can remember the night I got baptized like it was yesterday. It was a Sunday evening around 9pm. After the church service, I went to the pastor\'92s office to be briefed on what was going to happen at the baptismal tank. The assistant pastor told me, \'93Baptism is very difficult,\'94 and that I \'93needed to listen very carefully\'94 to his words. I said, \'93OK.\'94 He said, \'93I\'92d like you to fold your arms over your chest, pinch your nostrils together, and take a deep breath. Hold your breath while I put you down into the water and bring you up out of the water. Now, I know that sounds very difficult, so let me say it again.\'94 Then he paused and started chuckling. I smiled and started chuckling as well. He asked me if I had any questions, and I said, \'93No.\'94\
\
Finally, my big moment came. I walked out of the pastor\'92s office and into the baptismal tank under the floor of the platform. The water went up to about waist level. The pastor said his religious stuff and then fully immersed my body into the water. When he pulled me up and out of the water, I stood there like a deer in headlights because I had no idea what to do or say\'97especially since the senior pastor and congregation were watching. I looked at the assistant pastor, hoping for some encouragement or instruction on what to do or say. He looked at me and said, \'93Raise your hands and thank the Lord for what He has done in your life!\'94 So, I raised my hands\'97and that\'92s when it happened\'85\
\
I SPOKE IN TONGUES FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MY LIFE!!\
\
Up until that point, I had never witnessed (or heard) anyone speak in tongues.\
\
NOTE: You can read about it in the Bible in The Book of Acts, chapter 2, verse 4, and the book of First Corinthians chapter 14, verse 2.\
\
All I knew was that gibberish was coming out of my mouth\'97and I wasn\'92t initiating it!\
\
After speaking for a short period of time, I stopped and looked up at the senior pastor, Brother Merrick. He said, \'93Don\'92t stop! That\'92s God\'92s Spirit. It\'92s in the Bible.\'94 So, I opened my mouth again, and the gibberish started all over again. And man, the feeling associated with the tongues was UNREAL! I can tell you from a ton of life experience that nothing\'97ABSOLUTELY NOTHING\'97compares with the feelings I felt that night!\
\
NOTE: I\'92m thankful I still experience this feeling from time to time! Sometimes, it happens at church when I worship. Other times, it happens at home when I pray.\
\
I have no idea how long I spoke in tongues. All I know is that when it stopped, I felt like I could fly\'97because it felt like a HUGE weight had been lifted off my shoulders. I felt like I had become a new man (from the inside out) and had been empowered somehow. It was so memorable!!\
\
Now, before you think this was just some one-time emotional experience, what happened next was even more amazing\'85 At that point in my life, I had been a fairly successful thief. I had gone from stealing money from my parents\'92 hiding places at home, to stealing candies and small items from gas stations and department stores, to breaking into neighbors\'92 homes with an awl and screwdriver and stealing bigger items. And after doing this several times over seven years, I had not been caught.\
\
Suddenly, with His Spirit inside of me, there was guilt associated with these activities. And being instructed by His Spirit, I humbled myself and went back to everyone I had stolen from, admitted what I had done, and offered to repay them. I write it this way because I want you to know that no man taught or influenced me to do this.\
\
Looking back, I see that the very first thing God\'92s Spirit did in my life was humble me! I can still remember the looks on people\'92s faces when I told them what I had done. I can still remember their comments.\
\
Talk about new beginnings\'85\
Life had suddenly taken a sharp right turn. And what happened next was even more fantastic! I\'92ll talk about a couple of these events in the next section.\
\
If you have questions or comments, you can email me at the address listed below and let's talk.\
\
In His Name,\
\
Roy.\
\
P.S. What does all of this mean for you? Here\'92s what I believe it means for you:\
\
All of this is possible\'97even for you! I am no one special. God did some amazing things in my life. And if this is something you want to experience or consider, please, by all means, talk to Him about it. Better yet, email me and ask for more details\'97because I\'92ve only shared the READER\'92S DIGEST VERSION in this article!}