{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 Up until this point in time in my life\'97and journey with Christ\'97I had witnessed and experienced the following:\
\
1. Dead, dull, dry & boring church services.\
2. Lively, exciting & adventurous church services (where sometimes we had a \'93normal\'94 service, and other times we ended up praying and/or worshipping\'97without a sermon\'97for 2 hours or more)! Have you ever been to a church service like this?\
3. Hypocrisy within the church.\
4. I'd searched for and found Christ, not religion.\
5. I'd spoken in tongues (Acts chapter 2, verse 4, First Corinthians chapter 14, verse 18).\
6. I'd experienced God's Spirit numerous times.\
7. I'd had my life changed for the better\'97from the inside out.\
8. I'd had several private and important prayers answered.\
9. I'd witnessed and experienced several REAL LIFE miracles.\
10. I'd attended\'97and been kicked out of\'97Bible College.\
11. I'd been disowned by my parents.\
12. I'd been homeless and lived on the street.\
\
Here's a glimpse of a few miracles that happened to me:\
\
A. The Prayer for Food\'85 One evening, in my apartment, I was hungry. I went to the cupboard in the kitchen to get something to eat. All I found was a nearly empty box of Cream of Wheat and one can of green beans. I then went to my living room, got down on my knees, and began to pray for food\'97because I had recently lost my job and was short on funds.\
\
While praying, there came a knock on the door. I got up, walked over, and opened it. Sitting there on my front porch were two bags of groceries\'97and no one standing around.\
\
Within 15\'9620 seconds of beginning to pray, my prayer had been answered. This was miracle #4 for me.\
\
B. The Stranger with $420\'85 One day, I was thinking about attending a conference in a faraway city. At the time, I didn\'92t have much money\'97but I chose to go anyway.\
\
At the end of the first day of the conference, a man came up to chat with me (someone from a different church\'97someone I had never met before). We talked about the conference, music, and a variety of other topics. Then, to my surprise, he reached into his back pocket, pulled out his wallet, and handed me a wad of twenty-dollar bills\'97$420 to be precise!\
\
This man knew nothing about my life circumstances (nor did anyone else), but there he was handing me money. When I asked him why, he said, \'93I feel led of the Lord to do it.\'94 Then he gave me a hug, turned, and walked away\'85 and I never saw him again. This was miracle #5 for me.\
\
C. The Appetite for God\'92s Word\'85 Having been taught the importance of reading and studying God\'92s Word, the Bible, I struggled with doing it consistently. So, I prayed earnestly one night and asked the Lord to help me.\
\
The very next day, I was given a voracious appetite to read God\'92s Word\'97so much so that I read the entire New Testament in seven days. Then I read it again in ten days.\
\
Next, I began to read other books as well (e.g., Bible commentaries, Bible lexicons, Greek and Hebrew concordances, Bible handbooks, The Quran, Book of Mormon, Word of Wisdom, Pearl of Great Price, Doctrines & Covenants, Bhagavad Gita, etc\'85).\
\
This was miracle #3 for me.\
\
D. The Vertical Shift\'85 One day, I decided to go back to church and try this Christian thing all over again. Shortly thereafter, the pastor of that church pulled me into his office to have a serious talk. He told me many personal things about my life\'97things he had witnessed as well as things the Lord brought to his attention\'97and then encouraged me to stop focusing so much on the horizontal (people and their flaws) and instead to focus on the vertical: my relationship with Christ. Thank you, Pastor Alexander!!\
\
The Pattern Becomes Clear\'85\
I could go on, but I think you\'92re starting to see a pattern. God was using different events in my life to help me re-focus my thoughts, actions, and energies on Him\'97rather than my past experiences and the flawed people around me. Later, I would be humbled by the Lord (numerous times) and learn to see my own flaws, quirks, idiosyncrasies, and sin!!!\
\
What This Chapter Felt Like\'85\
To describe this period of time in my life\'97as compared to the last chapter\'97let me say it like this:\
\
In the last chapter (PART 03), it felt like I was driving 70 MPH down a country road on a motorcycle on a warm sunny day. Out of nowhere, an animal unexpectedly crosses the road in front of me. I swerve to miss it, fall off the bike, tumble, and skid across the pavement as my hands, forearms, and knees scrape the asphalt for nearly one hundred feet.\
\
In this chapter, I feel like I\'92m in the emergency room after a motorcycle accident, and a nurse is performing debridement on the skin of my hands, forearms, and knees. Piece by piece, she pulls out 100+ small shards of glass, metal, and asphalt from my skin. Then, she scrubs my skin with an abrasive sponge and antiseptic solution. Finally, she applies an antibacterial salve to my skin, wraps the exposed wounds in gauze and tape, gives me two Tylenol, and sends me home.\
\
\
\
\
While I am thankful for this period of time in my life (because I learned a lot), I am also thankful it's over!\
\
Now, the real journey begins. And trust me when I say this: I failed spectacularly\'85 because I had some more lessons to learn - and I needed to be humbled!\
\
If you have questions or comments, you can email me at the address listed below.}