{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf330
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset77 Verdana;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green142\blue0;\red255\green142\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11540\viewh11700\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 Question
\f1\b0 : Roy, in the Positioning section of BJJ201, you show an example of countering the armbar by placing your head over top of Mr. Dean's head. You also are jamming your knees into Mr. Dean's head so that he can't roll to his stomach to finish the armbar. Here are my two questions:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 1) Is it not possible for the bottom person to escape his head through the other side to roll to his stomach?\
2) What would you do from this position?\
Thanks.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf2 Answer
\f1\b0 : To answer your questions:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 \
1) Yes, it is POSSIBLE for the person on the bottom to escape his head through the other side. However, this "possibility" is determined by the distribution of his weight.\
\
2) I would counter the positioning shown on my instructional with an appropriately timed, "intermediate" level counter. What would that counter be? It would all "depend" on where his weight was at a specific point in time and how his body was positioned in relation to mine (at that specific point in time).\
\
I know that sounds like a vague answer, and it is. However, you must understand that intermediate level Jiu JItsu is so much different than the basic level. Intermediate level Jiu JItsu requires a student to remain aware of a person's weight,  movement and position. Why? Because things can change so quickly.\
\
Also, what looks the same to the beginning level student is not the same to the interiediate level student. Why is that? Simple. The beginning level student is unaware of such things as weight distribution, limb placement and breathing. All the beginning level student can focus on is what he or she sees.\
\
So, even though it might be possible for a beginning level student\cf3  to escape his head through the other side, he would not use this escape against me because I, being a more skilled practitioner, would FEEL his intentions long before he began his escape.\
\
Does that make sense?\
\
Good training to you,\
\
Roy Harris\cf2 \
\
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf2 Follow up question
\f1\b0 : Thanks Roy for the answers. I should have been clearer for question #2). I was interested to know what the top person would do from that position...\
Now that you mentioned "intermediate" level counter(s), would you give us any more explanation? Or is it something we need to wait until you release BJJ201 part 2?? ;)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf2 Follow up answer
\f1\b0 : You asked, "What would the person from the top do?" Since he has already neutralized the arm lock, all he need do is find the precise moment in time to extract his arm and pass the guard.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 You also asked me to give you more explanations. I can't do that unless you ask a very specific question. You see BackDrop, for twelve years now, I have been writing with a very specific goal in mind: I want to raise everyone's level of awareness. Why? Because when a person has a very high level of awareness, it means that they are ready for some pretty advanced material. Let me give you some examples from my own personal experience:\
\
1. A white (and lazy blue) belt question: "How do I escape the mount position?"\
2. A blue belt question: "How do I escape the mount position when Ryan does it?"\
(NOTE: Ryan has been a purple belt for three years and is close to obtaining his brown belt. Additionally, Ryan comes from a Judo background, works out four days a week and weighs a solid 220 lbs..)\
3. A purple belt question: "How do I escape the mount position when my opponent's knees are high in my armpit?"\
4. A brown belt question: "There are times when I have difficulty escaping the mount position. This usually occurs when I let a fellow student into the game and he places his knees high into my armpit. He leans his weight onto my right side by putting most of his weight on his left knee. He also hugs my head and my left arm with both of his arms. Occasionally, he'll straighten out his right leg and hook my left butt cheek or upper left thigh. I have tried bridge and roll, as well as elbow/ knee escape. And since he has controlled my head and my left elbow with both of his arms, I find it hard to move underneath him. I mean, I know I shouldn't let him go that far into the control position, but can you give me some ideas on how to escape when I let him obtain this much control?"\
\
Did you notice any differences in the above questions? Did you notice how as the belt color got darker, the questions became more and more specific? Did you also notice how the questions become longer and more descriptive? Do you also notice how the brown belt's awareness to himself and his opponent was very high?\
\
THIS is how I want students to ask questions!\
\
NOTE: I do this same thing at my academy. If a student asks a very general question, I give them a very general answer. If the student has the initiative and drive, and takes the time to formulate and ask a very specific and detailed question, I will take the time to provide them with a very specific and detailed answer.\
\
Does that make sense?\
\
So, if you have a more detailed question, please ask. Your question "would you give us any more explanation" needs more details ; )\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf2 Another follow up question
\f1\b0 : "Does that make sense? " Yes, it does.\
I've realized that I asked a lazy and ambiguous question, not worthy of any good specific answer. But your response was much better than any answer that I had hoped for, as it clearly pointed out that my weakness is in low awareness rather than anything specific.\
\
So, rather than going back to this one technique, I will work on raising my awareness and will come back to you with more specific questions.\
\
Thank you very much for your time.\
\

\f0\b My final follow up answer
\f1\b0 : I am glad to hear that you will be working on raising your level of awareness.\
\
The high level (read "advanced") martial arts training I provide focuses exclusively on this area of training. And when a practitioner focuses on this area for an extended period of time, his or her sense of timing and distancing develop as well.\
Having a high level of timing, distancing and awareness are what separate "the phenomenal" from "the good."\
Phenomenal training to you,\
Roy Harris\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf2 Question
\f1\b0 : I was just rewatching BJJ over 40 and in the scrolling text, you talk about using these defensive postures against big strong guys who would wait until you were tired to roll with you.You wrote in regards to your matches with these strong, aggressive guys: "I would end up using one of the defensive postures to get them to engage me. And then once I got them to engage me and bring their hips closer to me, I would then engage them and try to control their hip or thigh. Once I got their hip, thigh, or knee in the crook of my elbow, I could then begin to control their body and move towards a control position or submission."\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 Would you mind explaining what you mean by this statement? I am guessing that by "leg in the crook of your arm" you mean a position similar to an underpass, but I'm not sure.\
\
Thanks.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf2 Answer
\f1\b0 : When you boil Jiu Jitsu down to its root, you'll find that the core issue is CONTROL.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 \
Whenever you spar with other students, you spend the majority of your time focusing on control. Therefore, it is in your best interest to spend the majority of your time in training focusing on control (rather than the host of other fun topics).\
\
So, to give myself an advantage, I would use a defensive posture to limit my vulnerability and wait for my opponent to engage me. Once I got them to engage me, I could then use my temporary positional advantage to establish control.\
\
Now, when it comes to control, the main area of control is always the hips. I have written many times in my writings that "The person who controls the hips is the person who controls the game." I began writing this back in the mid 1990's and it still applies today.\
\
So, whenever I have the opportunity to HUG an opponent's hips or HUG his thigh, I do so because it gives me an incredible amount of control and makes their response to this control predictable.\
\
NOTICE how I emphasized the word "HUG" in the above paragraph! I did this because I wanted my MALE readers to FOCUS on the word HUG. I also wanted them NOT to read the word GRAB. Why? Because their is a marked difference between a HUG and a GRAB. Why am I emphasizing this with males? Because women naturally understand the word hug - for it means to fully embrace another person with your entire arm and your entire upper body (front side). However, to many males, a hug simply means to grab ahold of someone for a short period of time (and to only use their hands and wrists).\
\
So, to HUG the hips or thigh, one must embrace them with the entire arm and the entire upper body (front side). This means that the hip or thigh will center itself in the crook of your elbow so that it (the elbow) can be pulled towards the center of your body.\
\
Does this make sense?\
\
Good training to you,\
\
Roy Harris\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf2 Question
\f1\b0 : I have been training Bjj for a while. I have made some pretty good advancement. However, instead of being motivated, I am having a hard time even thinkning about BJJ. I tried not training. I have tried extra hard training( I went to ATT for a week). Have you ever had problems staying motivated? And if so, what have you done to get over it?\
\
\

\f0\b Answer
\f1\b0 : Over the years, there were numerous times when I lacked motivation for training. Sometimes, these periods lasted for a couple of weeks. At other times, they lasted for a few months. And still other times, it lasted for over one year.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 What you must realize is that these periods of "feeling unmotivated" happen to everyone. So, you are not alone.\
You must also understand that this is a phase you are going through, and that more than likely, at some point in time, you will move beyond this phase. And, if you do not move beyond this phase after a few years, you must accept this change as a part of your future.\
The bottom line is this: Worry not about tomorrow, for none of us are promised tomorrow! Enjoy life today!\
Since your mind and heart have no desire to focus on Jiu Jitsu, focus on other activities that bring fulfillment and enjoyment to your life! If Jiu Jitsu comes back into the picture at some point in time, cool. If it doesn't, that's cool as well.........as long as you have enjoyed life along the way!\
Does this all make sense?\
Enjoy life my brother!\
Roy Harris\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf2 A follow up question
\f1\b0 : it does. Part of the problem is that I am blessed to teach Jiujitsu all day everyday. I am certtainly going to take your advice and not worry about it so much.\
Sort of flow with the go, right?\
As always, I appreciate your time Mr. Harris\
\

\f0\b My follow up answer:
\f1\b0  Teaching Jiu Jitsu is different than training Jiu Jitsu. When you teach Jiu Jitsu, your goal is to develop your students (and from the sounds of it, you don't have a problem in that area). When you train Jiu Jitsu, your goal is to develop yourself (and this is where the problem lies).\
\
So yes, flow with the go!\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf2 Another follow up response
\f1\b0 : Yeah that is true. My guys are making great progress.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 I maybe should take up a hobby. All I do is teach or train.\
Maybe golf:)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b \cf2 My follow up answer
\f1\b0 : Golf would be a nice hobby!\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 Here's an interesting story for ya:\
A few years ago, a friend of mine joked with me. He said, "Golf is for old, fat men and wimps!" Well, I encouraged him to meet me at a local golf driving range. Of course, he wanted nothing to do with golf.\
So to make a long story short: Eventually, I got him to meet me at the local golf driving range. After watching me hit the ball 280 to 310 yards long, he stepped up to the ball and swung as hard as he could four times. Each time, he missed the ball. Finally, he hit the ball on his fifth try. The ball "sputtured" to the right some 30 yards from the driving mat.\
My friend suddenly exclaimed, "Dang, my back is killing me!"\
My priceless reply: "Oh come on. Golf is for wimps!" You've been here less than five minutes and your back is killing you. Imagine if you had been here for over an hour like I have?"\
To this day, I still remind my friend of this incident - Yes, my friend actually hurt his back after swinging the club less than ten times! What a wimp ; )\
Seriously though, find some other activity to occupy your time.......cuz eventually Jiu Jitsu will fade back into the picture or fade completely out of the picture.\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
Question: 
\f2\fs25 i read your response on another thread about "specific" questions. OK, I have a fairly specific question for you!\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Sometimes when I have a specific opponent inside my closed guard, my opponent will:\
1) pop up to both feet. he places his feet back--sort of in a sprawl- type position. this makes it so that his legs are too far away for me to either a) underhook his leg with my arm or b) grab his gi-pant at the knee. my opponent also\
2) hugs around my neck very strongly and crossfaces me. he is very, very strong. i have tried to defeat his grip around my neck by placing my feet on his hips and pushing him away (straightening his arm out) but he is so strong that often this does not work, especially when i am very tired. he then\
3) sleeve chokes me. i have tried several methods to counter this sleeve choke. i have tried pushing up on his chin like one of the basic counters to a can opener. i have also tried to block his choking hand from coming over my neck by grabbing it with my same-side hand. however, neither of these methods has worked for me. i feel that i do not have enough leverage--it turns into a strength vs. strength battle, which i inevitably lose.\
i also have tried armbarring my opponet. however in order to place my leg over my opponent's face for the armbar, i would have to basically stack myself--folding myself in half--because my opponent's head is so close to mine and because he is putting so much stacking pressure on me already.\
do you have any specific suggestions for how to turn this situation in my favor? i like the closed guard, but i am starting to become afraid to use it against this partner--his highest chance of making me submit comes from when he is inside my closed guard. i would like to turn the tables and make HIM scared to be inside my closed guard!\
thanks, matt
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
Answer: 
\f2\fs25 Very good question. Before I answer, can you provide me with the answers to a few questions?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 1. What color is your belt?\
2. How long have you been consistently training? I'd like to read "hours" not years.\
3. What color is this opponent's belt?\
4. How many hours has he been training?\
5. What can you tell me about your previous martial arts background?\
6. What can you tell me about your opponent's previous martial arts background?\
7. How much do you weigh?\
8. How much does he weigh?\
9. On a scale of one to ten, how would you rate your current level of athleticism?\
10. On a scale of one to ten, how would you rate your opponent's current level of athleticism?\
11. How confident and experienced are you with your use of the closed and open guards?\
12. How confident and experienced are you with your use of the butterfly and half guards?\
Get me these answers and I will give you a detailed answer.\
Roy Harris\
\
Follow up response: Roy Harris wrote: Before I answer, can you provide me with the answers to a few questions?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 1. What color is your belt?\
White.\
2. How long have you been consistently training? I'd like to read "hours" not years.\
About 850 hours--based on my estimate of 6 hours weekly for the past 2.75 years. That's a fairly conservative estimate.\
One important detail is that although I've been training no-gi for about three years, I just switched to gi-only training about a month ago.\
3. What color is this opponent's belt?\
He is a white belt.\
4. How many hours has he been training?\
He has probably trained less than 50 hours; based on a comment he made about having trained for about 2 months.\
5. What can you tell me about your previous martial arts background?\
I am 27 years old. Age 6, I did a year of TKD. Age 12-16: Okinawan Karate. Age 16-18: Sanuces Ryu Jujutsu. Age 22-24: A year of Aikido. Age 24-27: BJJ, with about 10% of the time devoted to wrestling, the clinch, and/or boxing and 90% to groundwork.\
6. What can you tell me about your opponent's previous martial arts background?\
He has done aikido in the past. To what extent or how seriously, I do not know.\
7. How much do you weigh?\
165, probably.\
8. How much does he weigh?\
140.\
9. On a scale of one to ten, how would you rate your current level of athleticism?\
Three. Maybe four. Low.\
10. On a scale of one to ten, how would you rate your opponent's current level of athleticism?\
Eight. Maybe nine. He is *incredibly* strong and very quick.\
11. How confident and experienced are you with your use of the closed and open guards?\
Roy, I have consciously devoted over 200 hours to practicing open guard control. It's my most practiced area. I can keep a fair number of white and blue belts from passing my guard at all. However, many times with regards to more athletic, stronger opponents, I cannot stop them from executing some of the more fast, athletic jumping-style passes and torreano-style passes.\
12. How confident and experienced are you with your use of the butterfly and half guards?\
Probably over 150 hours devoted to butterfly guard and half-guard bottom during live rolling. the two guards seem interconnected and a lot of times when someone began to pass my butterfly guard I will defend by switching to half-guard. I am not confident with these positions. This is because my offense from these positions still feels weak. I cannot reliably reverse or submit from these guard positions.\
Thanks Roy.\
Best, Matt\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
My follow up response: So you trained Sanuces Ryu Jujutsu? Cool. Whom did you train with? Did you ever meet Professor Moses Powell? I got the chance to train with one of his students, Professor Robert Crosson.\
Since the two of you're are about the same size, here are a few things to try:\
TECHNIQUE #1\
1. When you BEGIN to pull him into your guard, entangle one of his arms with a two on one. In other words, take your right hand and grab his right sleeve at the wrist. Take your left hand and grab the gi just above his right elbow.\
2. Once you have gotten ahold of his gi, pull his hand and elbow across centerline. Don't try and hold it there (because obviously he is very strong). Just try to get him occupied with freeing his arm.\
These two elements will buy you more time.\
Once you have bought more time, you will now have more time to use your feet and your knees to off balance him and set him up for your favorite techniques from the open guard.\
So remember, the moment you BEGIN to pull them into your guard, that's when you entangle his right arm NOT AFTER you have already pulled him into your guard and crossed your ankles.\
TECHNIQUE #2\
1. Once he has stood up in your guard and is beginning to grab at your neck with his left arm, place your right foot on his left hip and push your head to your right. Turn onto your left side as you do so.\
2. With your right hand, push up on his left elbow and turn it over to your left (his right). This will lock his arm and you MAY be able to finish from here. However, at the very least, his focus will not be re- directed towards freeing his left arm instead of placing his right arm in position for the sleeve choke.\
TECHNIQUE #3\
1. Once he has stood up in your guard and has grabbed your neck with both arms, grab ahold of his gi at his shoulders or just above his elbows.\
2. Place both of your feet on his thighs (close to his knees). Walk with your feet and push his knees farther away from you. Your goal is to flatten him out onto his belly.\
3. As he begins to fall onto his belly, violently turn to your right in an effort to sweep him. Sometimes you will get the sweep. Other times he will catch his balance with his hands and will have to start all over again.\
Give these three techniques a try and let me know how it goes.\
Roy Harris\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\
Question: 
\f2\fs25 Roy, Do you think the guard in no gi is getting harder and harder to play , and a top game is becoming more of preference? When i go with the stiffer muscley base driven elbows tucked in guys, I feel a tad helpless or confused as to what may nullify these rigid players.
\f1\fs24 \
\
\
Answer: 
\f2\fs25 With regard to the "stiffer muscley base driven elbows tucked in guys", your only hope is to uncross your ankles, move your hips to the side and immediately begin to destroy their neck. This will be the only way you can get them to move their elbows away from their ribs and actually engage you.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 The whole "defensive and athletic game" (that is now prevalent in BJJ) came from wrestlers who were frustrated with Jiu Jitsu. They didn't know how to deal with the legwork of BJJ in an effective manner without exposing their obvious weakness to arm locks and choke. So, they chose to go the defensive route by getting a wide base, tucking in their elbows and chin and waiting until they saw an opportunity to pass the guard or go to a neutral position.\
After they saw how effective this was, very soon after, they began digging their elbows into the inside of the thighs as a method of uncrossing the ankles.\
Shortly thereafter, the Bob Sapp guard pass was born:\
1. Once the ankles were uncross, back away and place both feet on the ground.\
2. Reach under any leg with your right arm.\
3. Explosively throw that leg as far as you can to your left, preferably from one zip code to the next.\
4. Run like Speedy Gonzalez and pass the guard.\
If that didn't work, well, back away and disengage. Wait until you see another opening and then explode past the thrown leg again.\
So, when you have someone who is playing a defensive game with their arms, you have to attack their neck immediately. Push it to the side or place your forearm underneath it and drive it up. Do not allow them to bury their head Shamrock style. Lift it up and force them to use their hands to defend. THIS is how you can get to the elbows!\
Good training to you,\
Roy Harris
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
Question: 
\f2\fs25 Roy,\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 For someone at a beginning level (say white to low blue), how would you suggest they approach their training?\
Would you suggest to concentrate on an overall game? Or to focus on certain positions & techs?\
Is there a balance that you try to instill in your students? Or do you have them focus on trouble areas exclusively until they are competent in that area?
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
Answer: 
\f2\fs25 Here's my perspective:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Any good coach will have his beginning level students focus on fundamentals.\
What are fundamentals? Well, from my perspective, fundamentals are the techniques and movements used by most practitioners regardless of skill level. For example, in all stand up fighting arts, the bending and straightening of the knees are used by all practitioners. Therefore, any drill or exercise that forces the beginningn level pracitioner to repeatedly bend and straighten his knee will reinforce a fundamental movement. Not only that, but with the combination of time and a specific set of exercises, that fundamental movement can become instinctive and reflexive - which is the real goal of training!\
Additionally, there's no sense is training a beginner in an area they won't use often. For example, why train a beginner how to use the X guard if he always ends up on his back, fighting from the bottom of the mount or side mount positions? If he cannot use the series of techniques you are teaching him (because they are above his current skill and awareness level), then you are really wasting his present time.\
All too often, I see beginning level students wanting so very much to practice the advance moves they see purple belts and above performing. They think its really cool to be able to do these moves, but yet they lack the experience with the fundamental movements, not to mention the finesse and coordination, to be able to perform the more complex techniques with any amount of success. And what ends up happening is they become frustrated and then declare, "Oh that technique would never work."\
So, since BJJ has more than one-hundred differen areas to train, there's obviously no way a beginning level student is going to be able to practice all of them within a short period of time. This leads us to a basic question: What areas should a beginning level student train first? My answer to this question is this:\
1. Mount escapes.\
2. Side mount escapes.\
3. Head lock escapes.\
4. Guard control.\
These four areas lay a solid foundation in BJJ: The game on your back! I know a lot of people squak at this, but it must be remembered that we are training in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu, not some wrestler's version of Jiu Jitsu.\
I have taught this way since 1994. It has worked, and I plan to continue teaching this way. While it may not be the most fun way of training, it definitely works for the student who plans on being involved in this sport for the long haul - Two to three decades!\
Now, only after the fundamentals have been grasped should a student begin to work on other important areas of training. And then once a student has become proficient in all of the different areas of training, only then should he or she begin to develop an overall plan that addresses personal preferences and "style."\
Good training to you,\
Roy Harris\
\
Follow-up questions: Thank you for that well thought out answer.\
If you don't mind, I'd like to follow that up with a few more questions.\
First, would you recommend separating these fundamentals into focused training segments? What I mean, for example, is say, spend a month per area as a main focus in your training that month?\
Or would you suggest working all these areas, but maybe only focus on one per day? Not spending too much time (such as a month) on only one area.\
Or maybe some other way?\
\
My follow up answer: A lot will depend on what you want to accomplish. If you want to accomplish a lot over a short period of time, then you can train all of these areas. However, since you will be dividing up your time so much, you should not expect to have any decent level of skill in every one of them.\
For example, if you have 10 hours of training to commit each week and you train one area for all forty hours, you should be able to accomplish a lot. And, you should see a noticeable difference in that one area on the mat. However, if you divide this 40 hours up into four separate training areas and you only commit 10 hours to each area, well, you may feel like you are training a lot, but your performance on the mat may not show significant improvement.\
When I was training consistently, I focused on one area for a lengthy period of time - usually one to seven years. That's right, one to seven years! While I did spar in all of the different areas, my focus in training was ONE SPECIFIC AREA! And, I would not say my progress was fast. However, now that I am sixteen years into my experience and have trained pretty much MOST of the areas within BJJ, I have full confidence in all of my fundamentals. Of course I still have weak areas, but my fundamentals in in the six most commonly used areas of BJJ are solid!\
So, because there is so much to train, try not to accomplish TOO MUCH too soon. You are only one man with so much time in one day, one week, one month and one year. Rather, take small baby steps in the most important areas at first.\
Does this make sense?\
Good training to you,\
Roy Harris\
\
Another follow up question: So you focused your training like this from the very beginning?\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 You said:\
"Of course I still have weak areas, but my fundamentals in the six most commonly used areas of BJJ are solid!"\
Could you state those six areas?\
I bought your "BJJ Over 40" dvd, and I would just like to say that it is fast becoming one of my favorites of your vids. Definitely echoes the things you are saying, just as your 101 & 102 does.\
Thanks for taking the time to answer my questions and share your experience/knowledge\
\
My follow-up answer: Those six areas are:\
1. Mount escapes.\
2. Side mount escapes.\
3. Guard control.\
4. Guard passing.\
5. Side mount control.\
6. Mount control.\
Roy Harris
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: 
\f2\fs25 In my opinion, there are several types of awareness:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 1. Awareness of sight (light, movement, color, shape, etc..) 2. Awareness of sound 3. Awareness of smell 4. Awareness of touch 5. Awareness of taste 6. Awareness of the mind 7. Awareness of the spirit\
Many people FOCUS their efforts on a few of these, usually the first two. Event fewer people FOCUS on numbers 3, 4 and 5. And even fewer can FOCUS numbers 6 and 7.\
While grappling, most students focus on what they see. Even fewer focus on what they hear or touch. With proper training, discipline and time, any student can develop their awareness to touch, which is what we call sensitivity, to a high level.\
How does one accomplish this? By paying attention to detail from day one and by asking and answering some simple questions!\
For years, I have written about paying attention to details (i.e. the subtle nuances of how, when, why and what). For example, I have talked and written about the subtle nuances of the upa and elbow/ knee techniques, yet I still see students around the world who have my instructionals yet they still have problems performing the most basic of movements. Why do these students STILL have problems with these fundamental techniques? Because they contracted a Grappler's disease I refer to as the "Yeah, I got it" disease.\
What is the "Yeah, I got it"? Well, I describe it like this: The student is shown a simple technique. After a few minutes of contemplation, the student thinks to themselves, "Yeah, I've got it now." Then, for the next several years, he or she never digs any deeper into the meaning of the movements they were taught. Rather, they simply accept what they have been taught as Gospel truth and never commit any personal research to the issue. Additionally, they are rarely able to make certain techniques work unless speed, power and explosiveness are used. However, that doesn't bother them because they feel, "Hey, I got the tap (or the sweep)......and that's all that matters." This attitude is the number one symptom of the "Yeah, I got it" disease.\
Here is another example: Over the years, I have given over 100 blue belt examinations in the past seven years, yet only two or three out of ten people (when performing the upa technique) actually trap the arm like I demonstrate on my instructional videos (and like I teach to all of my instructors). Why is it that so many of these students trap the arm any way they feel like trapping it (some of which work and others which work because their training partners allow them to work)? Why don't they trap it the way I taught them to trap it or the way their instructor taught them? Simple. Because "They've got it."\
What's interesting is when it comes time for them to grapple, very few of them can rarely perform the upa technique. Yet, when they see me grapple with my purple belts, and I allow a purple belt to mount on top of me, and they see me perform a simple upa technique REALLY SLOW, they wonder how I am able to do that. Heck, I have even had some of my purple belts ask me how I do it! What they miss is so simple - It is right before their eyes.........yet many of them still think THEY'VE GOT IT! However, from my perspective, they don't got it.\
So, from my perspective, to raising one's level of awareness (which is the first key to developing sensitivity), the first mountain that must be conquered is the Mountain of AWARENESS TO SELF. Once this mountain is conquered, the practitioner must go through a short (or long) valley called "a plateau" before beginning their journey up the next mountain, the Mountain of AWARENESS TO ONE'S TRAINING PARTNER. These two mountains must be conquered before can even begins to think about climbing the third, fourth and fifth mountains of awareness.\
So, where does the journey begin? The first journey up the first mountain begins with paying attention to detail right from the start. It also involves keeping the same level of interest (i.e. intensity) throughout the journey through the various belt levels. For example, many beginners make light of the upa and elbow/knee escape techniques. However, they do not realize the wisdom contained within these two techniques. They do not realize HOW IMPORTANT these techniques are to their overall development, even if it is stated to them. Why? Because of that dreaded "Yeah, I got it" disease.\
Here's the wisdom in these two techniques: Upa and elbow/knee escape lay the foundation for 90+% of what a student will perform in live grappling sessions from day one until they hang up the wrestling shoes, head gear and/or gi. Therefore, in my opinion, it will be imperative that Upa and elbow/knee escape be studied in detail from white belt to advanced purple belt (or should I say "The first five to seven years of one's journey.")\
NOTE: I know many who would disagree with me on this point, but that's OK. My goal is not to make the student effective. Anyone can be effective given enough time, determination and desire. Additionally, technique is not required for effectiveness! No, my goal as an instructor is to help my students become efficient over time, as well as teach them how to play and discover on their own. In short, I am in this for the long haul (two to four decades).\
So, once a student has studied these two techniques with their eyes open, they'll need to study them with their eyes closed. With their eyes closed, they need to learn how to FEEL the techniques. How do they FEEL a technique? Well, here are a few ideas for you to play with:\
1. What does Upa FEEL LIKE on your feet? Describe and define it in explicit , non-visual terms. 2. What does Upa FEEL LIKE on your shins? Describe and define it in explicit , non-visual terms. 3. What does Upa FEEL LIKE on your knees? Describe and define it in explicit , non-visual terms. 4. What does Upa FEEL LIKE on your thighs? Describe and define it in explicit , non-visual terms. 5. What does Upa FEEL LIKE on your hips? Describe and define it in explicit , non-visual terms. 6. What does Upa FEEL LIKE on your stomach? Describe and define it in explicit , non-visual terms. 7. What does Upa FEEL LIKE on your chest? Describe and define it in explicit , non-visual terms. 8. What does Upa FEEL LIKE on your shoulders? Describe and define it in explicit , non-visual terms. 9. What does Upa FEEL LIKE on your neck? Describe and define it in explicit , non-visual terms. 10. What does Upa FEEL LIKE on your elbows? Describe and define it in explicit , non-visual terms. 11. What does Upa FEEL LIKE on your forearms? Describe and define it in explicit , non-visual terms. 12. What does Upa FEEL LIKE on your hands? Describe and define it in explicit , non-visual terms.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Once a person has taken the time to describe (in print) what Upa FEELS like, they should take the time to describe the weight shifts they feel at the beginning of the technique, at the middle of the technique, and at the end of the technique. Make sure to use non-visual terms that most people could SEE with their eyes closed!\
What do I mean by using non-visual terms? Here are two examples. You tell me which example uses terms you can see with your mind's eye:\
Example #1 - When you perform the tomato technique, put your hand here. Next, your knee goes overtop of the leg, like this.\
Example #2 - When you perform the tomato technique, place the palm of your right hand on top of your opponent's left hip. Make sure to place the heel of your right hand on the front of your opponent's left hip. Also, make sure that most of your weight rests on the pinky side of the heel of your right hand.\
Next, your left knee is placed on top of your opponent's left upper thigh, close to his groin area. Make sure to place the tip of your kneecap on the inside of his thigh. In other words, don't put your upper shin on this thigh - use only your kneecap.\
Now, if you had your eyes closed and someone was speaking to you, which example would you have preferred to hear? Obviously, you would have preferred to hear example #2 because it created to clear image in your mind's eye of what was going on. This is what I mean when I refer to writing your answers in non-visual terms.\
So, in raising your level of awareness to self, it will be important to you that you fully and clearly communicate your thoughts to yourself!!! If you don't, how else will you be able to obtain all the information that could have been obtained?\
Once you have thought about your answers and have taken the time to write them down, you can rest assured that you will never forget them because they will be firmly planted in your mind's eye, as well as memorized in your muscles and skin!\
Additionally, your new level of awareness to what you feel will change the way you train!\
So, begin your journey like this:\
1. Have your training partner attempt your guard by performing three or four guard passes. Make sure he stays within the confines of those guard passes. I know that many BJJ practitioners have the tendency to become competitive with each other and change the drill to something it was not meant to be, but if you want to see a lot of improvement in a short period of time, the training must stay focused (that is, it must be goal oriented). Notice I wrote FOCUSED, not FUN. While I believe it is important to have fun with your training at times, generally, fun and focus do not occur at the same time! Rather, they occur independent of each other. So, keep your goal oriented training sessions disciplined and focused.\
2. Now, once you have a feel for what those guard passes feel like (for your legs, hips and upper torso), and you know what you counters should be performed against specific techniques, begin to work on the timing of your counters. How do you work on the timing of your counters? Begin by recognizing (first by sight, then by feel) what specific counters work against specific guard passes. Then, work on putting that counter in at the most appropriate time. When is that time? When the counter technique FEELS like a hot knife cutting through warm butter.......when it feel effortless to perform your counter. Once you are able to perform this counter at the appropriate time, three to four times out of ten in a dynamic, yet controlled environment, you can then move on to a different counter and repeat the same process.\
How long should a person work on timing his counters to three or four specific guard passes? I say a minimum of twenty hours. I believe it takes that long to become familiar with one technique as well as the techniques related to it. I also believe it takes that long to develop the muscle memory needed to perform it repetitively in a live sparring session. Why do I feel it takes this long? Because when we grapple, the windows of opportunity to perform any technique are very short. And since these windows of opportunity are very short, we do not have time to think during them. Rather, we must feel and respond. So, in order to compress our mechanics and become fluid and sensitive, I believe most of us need a minimum of twenty hours of focused, disciplined effort to obtain this level of sensitivity.\
Does that make sense?\
Well bro, I have to go, but I will write more later.\
Roy Harris\
\
\
Another follow-up question: Roy, BEAUTIFUL response. Thank you thank you!\
\
I'm copying and pasting your response in my training journal.\
\
Pure gold.\
\
Two more questions:\
- How did you develop this method of sensitivity training?\
- Is this an approach you'd recommend for the stand-up portion of combat training, particularly for trapping and clinch range sensitivity training?\
\
\
My follow-up response: Thanks!\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 You asked, "How did you develop this method of sensitivity training?" Simple: By paying attention to detail during the entire process, and by asking and answering a ton of questions that came up during training. In other words, I never settled for what was presented to me. I always asked myself (a) is there a more effective way of doing or training this, (b) is there a more efficient way of doing or training this, and more importantly, (c) is there a more efficient way of me presenting this to my students.\
You also asked, "Is this an approach you'd recommend for the stand- up portion of combat training, particularly for trapping and clinch range sensitivity training?" My answer would be a simple, yet emphatic, "YES!"\
Roy\

\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 Question:  What is the best thing to do when I attempt to perform the basic shrimp escape from the mount and my opponent counters?\
\
\
Answer: 
\f2\fs25 The best escape to use will depend on what exactly your opponent is doing to counter your basic shrimp escape.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 A few questions:\
1. Are you starting out on your back?\
2. Is your opponent fully mounted, or is he starting in one of the modified mount positions?\
3. What exactly does he do that gives you so much trouble?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 When you perform your elbow/knee escape, how is your opponent able to get his foot on the ground into your armpit? Are you purposely leaving your bottomside elbow out and away from your body? If so, consider the following:\
1. When you perform elbow/knee escape, the topside elbow does most of the pushing. The bottomside elbow does push, but it should not push too hard - especially with an opponent who is well versed at going to this modified mount position.\
Against your opponent who likes to use this modified mount, I would recommend you keep the bottomside elbow tucked neatly against your ribs.\
2. Should your bottomside elbow be left out and away from your body, and your opponent is able to get his foot into your armpit, do the following: (a) place your topside elbow into the bend of his knee, (b) perform elbow/knee escape again - this time by bridging first and then pushing your topside elbow against his calf (the leg that has the knee off the ground). The combination of the bridge and the elbow/knee escape will make it difficult for him to stay mounted. Granted, he may move to side mount, but at least he won't be mounted any more.\
Good training to you,\
Roy Harris
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
Question: \
\
\
Answer: \
\
\
}