{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2870
\cocoascreenfonts1\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13940\viewh13440\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 An Overview of the Basics of Harris Jiu Jitsu.\
\
\
Since the main issue in Harris Jiu Jitsu is control, you must first learn how to prevent an opponent from controlling your body by developing a skill with the escapes off of your back (from the mount and side mount positions). \
\
Secondly, you must learn how to control his body through the use of superior positions. The main control positions are the mount, side mount and guard positions.\
\
Third, you must develop the following seven (7) physical attributes:\
\
	1. Awareness.\
	2. Balance.\
	3. Coordination.\
	4. Timing.\
	5. Sensitivity.\
	6. Explosiveness.\
	7. Endurance\
\
By focusing your training on these three areas (1. Preventing control, 2. Establishing control and 3. Specific attribute development), you will lay a solid foundation to build off of.\
\
Now, here is a list of twenty-eight (28) techniques you must train to lay a foundation in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. These twenty-eight techniques will help you to develop:\
\
	A. A strong bridging motion. (NOTE: A strong bridge is used in 80% of the game on your back.)\
	B. Smooth and efficient lateral hip movement. This is needed for all of your escapes.\
	C. Balance and coordination. These two attributes are required for all athletic endeavors, especially ground work.\
\
Here are the twenty-eight technique:\
\
1. MOUNT ESCAPES\
	A. Two techniques on each side\
		a.1. Bridge and roll technique\
		a.2. Elbow/knee technique\
\
2. SIDE MOUNT ESCAPES\
	A. Two techniques on each side\
		a.1. Place into the guard\
		a.2. Go to your knees\
\
3. GUARD CONTROL\
	Two techniques on each side\
		a.1. Open guard control\
		a.2.  Butterfly guard control\
\
4. GUARD PASSING\
	Two techniques on each side\
		a.1. Under the leg\
		a.2. Over the leg\
\
5. SIDE MOUNT CONTROL\
	Two techniques on each side\
		a.1. Hold down #2\
		a.2. Hold down #3 \
\
6. MOUNT CONTROL\
	Two techniques on each side\
		a.1. Hold down #1\
		a.2. Hold down #2 \
\
7. STRAIGHT ARM LOCKS\
	From two positions\
		a.1. Mount position\
		a.2. Guard position\
\
8. BENT ARM LOCKS\
	From two positions\
		a.1. Side mount position\
		a.2. Guard position \
\
9. BARE ARM AND LEG CHOKES\
	From two positions\
		a.1. Side mount position\
		a.2. Guard position\
\
10. COLLAR CHOKES\
	From two positions\
		a.1. Side mount position\
		a.2. Guard position\
\
11. THROWS & TAKEDOWNS\
	Two throws, two takedowns on each side\
		a.1. Uchi mata\
		a.2. Harai goshi\
		a.3. Single leg\
		a.4. Double leg\
\
12. SWEEPS\
	Four techniques on each side\
		a.1. Scissors sweep\
		a.2. Hip bump sweep\
		a.3. Elevator sweep\
		a.4. Knee sweep\
\
\
Having been involved with Brazilian Jiu Jitsu for over thirteen years, and having written over 600 pages of personal notes, I have concluded that there are less than 30 techniques that lay the foundation for all beginning level students. Even though Brazilian Jiu Jitsu has several hundred techniques, it is the above twenty-eight that are used most often. These twenty-eight techniques are the most important to train during the formative years of beginning level students.\
\
Thank you for taking the time to read this article. I hope it has been helpful.\
\
Roy Harris\
}