{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12040\viewh15840\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The Mechanics of the Upa Escape\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b \cf0 1. Always begin your escapes by starting out in good posture.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\b0 \cf0 When you begin this escape by starting in good posture, you make it difficult for your opponent to move to a different position without giving up a lot of space and weight. You also make it difficult for him to apply a submission on you. This is always the best place to start for the beginner. \
\
Now, at the higher levels, a person does not have to start in posture. They can get away with placing their arms and legs outside of posture (in just about any position) and still escape. The reason they can do so is because of their high level of awareness. Because they have mastered their basics, because they have internalized their mechanics and can perform them without thought, they can put their arms in any position and watch how an opponent reacts to their movement and positioning. When they see the preparatory movements of a specific technique, they can stop it dead in its tracks AND STILL continue with their escape.\
\
Yes, I know the beginner would like to do this, but it is simply not possible. In time, the beginner will become an intermediate and eventually "an advanced" level student. However, until that time rolls around, he or she must begin their escapes with posture.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b \cf0 \
2. Trap the opponent's right arm with both of your arms.
\f0\b0 \
\
There are several ways to trap an opponent's arms. A lot depends on how your opponent places his arms on the ground or on your body. If the opponent places the palms of both hands on the ground, then you would trap his arm by first bending it and then by pulling his forearm onto your chest. You would then trap the tricep by cupping it with one of your hands. Then, you would trap the forearm by cupping it with your other hand. When you trap the tricep, you prevent the opponent from pulling his arm backward. When you trap his forearm, you prevent the opponent from pulling his wrist to his shoulder.\
\
If the opponent were to place his forearm under your neck, you would trap his tricep by encircling his arm with your arm and pressing your bicep against his tricep. You would trap his forearm by pressing down on it with the back of your head.\
\
If the opponent were to place both forearms on the ground, you would encircle the opponent's upper arm with one of your arms. You would then place the heel of your other hand on the hip to give you extra leverage when you raised your hips.\
\

\f1\b 3. Trap the opponent's right foot.
\f0\b0 \
\
With regard to trapping an opponent's foot, there are two ways to look at it:  \
\
One, you could simply place your foot over top of his foot, making sure your ankle is very close to his ankle, or two, you could NOT trap his foot and allow him to free it when you attempt to bridge and roll his body.  Doing this would allow you to use the upa technique as a set up for elbow/knee escape. More on this later!\
\

\f1\b 4. Raise your hips up off of the ground.
\f0\b0 \
\
After you have trapped the opponent's right arm and foot, it will be important for you to immediately raise your hips as high as you can. Obviously, once you trap your opponent's arm and leg, he will try to move to a different position. Therefore, you must off balance him as quickly as possible. Your window of opportunity is very small.\
\
Also, it will be important to you use your hips to accomplish this rather than your elbow or forearm. \
\
Using the elbow or forearm to push an opponent off balance is one of the most \cf2 common errors \cf0 performed by beginning level students. Make sure you use your hips to off balance the opponent. If you use your arms to push the opponent off balance, you will be using more strength than is necessary to perform this technique, and, by doing do you will not be using your strength efficiently.  Save your strength for the fun stuff: SUBMISSIONS!\
\

\f1\b 5. Turn towards the side that you have trapped.
\f0\b0 \
\
This may seem very obvious. However, I have seen a number of beginning level students trap the right side of their opponent's body and then bridge to their right (the opponent's un-trapped left side). When their opponent places their left hand on the ground to catch their balance, the beginning level student sometimes wonder why the technique did not work. When explained to them, they blush with embarrassment.\
\
Always turn towards the side that you have trapped.\
\
Another \cf2 common error \cf0 performed by beginning level students is to turn to the side without raising their hips.  Make sure you turn onto your side AFTER you have raised your hips.\
\
\

\f1\b 6. Established your base and posture.
\f0\b0 \
\
Once you have accomplished your objective and have escaped the opponent's mount, you must immediately establish good base and posture. Now, the reason I say this is because this is where some students become lazy. Once they've accomplished their objective by escaping the mount, they believe they can let their guard down and relax. Well, this is not true. Because as soon as they finish escaping the mount position using the upa technique, they will have to set themselves up to begin to pass their opponent's guard. If they are not careful or become lazy after having escaped the mount position, they may find themselves being put in an arm lock or choke. Or, they may find themselves being swept onto their back. Or, they may find that the opponent has grabbed their head and entangled your arms. Then, they are unable to establish posture with their arms and head. \
\
So, when you perform the upa technique, try not to congratulate yourself after escaping the mount. Rather, focus on the new set of goals on hand: establishing posture and beginning the process of passing the guard.\
\
Now, when I say "don't get lazy,", I mean this: Don't let your guard down when you practice the upa technique. Rather, stay focused throughout the whole movement. It is important that you learn to FEEL each and every component.  So, when you practice this very simple technique, do not rush to the end of the technique. Focus on performing the technique slowly and smoothly through the entire technique (from the first movement to the last).\
\
Here is a comment about explosiveness: Training the technique explosively is good, but not in the beginning. Learn to perform it correctly and then add explosiveness to it. Too often, beginning level students want to use explosiveness to effect the technique because it is the easy way to perform the technique.  They do not have to focus on anything except the one explosive movement. And, over time what usually happens is they never develop the technique fully. This is OK as long as they never grapple with someone who is stronger and faster than themselves. However, as soon as they grapple someone who knows almost  as much as they do, they find that their strength and speed can be matched, and they get tired very quickly.  (Does any of this sound familiar?)\
\
When students ONLY use speed and  explosiveness to effect their technique, they show their true skill level. They also show how dependent they are on the use physical attributes! Now, there's nothing wrong with doing things this way. Many grappling athletes get away with using athleticism to their advantage. However, I would not use the word "skill" when referring to their grappling abilities. Rather, I would use the terms, "talented" or "physically gifted."\
\
Finally, I'd like to make a comment about practicing this technique:\
\
"Too often, beginning level students give up on upa too soon. They employ the technique once or twice and then it no longer works. After that, most students say, "Argh, that technique doesn't work any more" and so they never practice it again. And then what happens is they never fully develop the technique nor the attribute it was designed to develop."\
\
The purpose for training this technique is to develop a strong bridging motion. This strong bridging motion will be used extensively throughout your journey in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu. You will use this one motion over and over again. For example, you use this motion whenever you finish a submission. You use it when you finish the straight arm lock, the guillotine choke, the foot lock, the knee bar and the rear choke. You also use this bridging motion a lot from the half guard and side mount positions. More on these later.\
\
So, do you see the importance of training this technique? Good! I expect you to develop a strong bridge over time!\
\
}