{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13360\viewh9880\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Be Honest in Your Training\
\
\
Over the past twenty-nine years of teaching, I\'92ve observed students come to class with all kinds of attitudes:\
\
I. Students have come to class because they\'92ve wanted to learn.\
II. Students have come to class because they\'92ve wanted to develop a skill.\
III. Students have come to class because they\'92ve wanted to have fun.\
IV. Students have come to class because of a desire to socialize.\
V. Students have come to class because they\'92ve wanted to \'93get out of the house.\'94\
VI. Students have come to class because they\'92ve wanted to be entertained.\
VII. Students have come to class because they\'92ve wanted to even the score with someone.\
VIII. Students have come to class because they\'92ve wanted to release some stress.\
IX. Students have come to class because they\'92ve wanted to get a workout.\
X. Students have come to class for a combination of some or all of the above.\
\
In fairness to the other students in class, if you\'92re not attending a class with a desire to learn or develop a skill, then it is my personal belief you should let your training partners know your intentions. I know that sounds like a lot to ask, but you must remember that we\'92re talking about martial art training. In other words, someone can get hurt because they assumed you were \'93training\'94 from a certain mental reference point.\
\
Here are a couple of examples of what I mean:\
\
EXAMPLE ONE\
Joe comes to class because he needs to relieve some stress. With all that is going on at home and at work, he is not in the mood for learning. Rather, he wants to turn every practice of technique into a sparring match.\
\
Tim, who is training with Joe, is unaware of this attitude. He (Tim) assumes that Joe is in his normal \'93training mode.\'94 Tim and Joe are working on arm locks. Tim is trying to finish the arm lock the instructor just taught, but Joe keeps \'93resisting\'94. Joe keeps resisting and trying to figure a way out of the arm lock. After eight or nine repetitions, Tim is a bit frustrated. He wonders why the arm lock is not working for him. On the very next repetition, Tim, thinking his technique has not been so good, but wanting to see and feel Joe tap, he throws his leg over Joe\'92s face really hard and then explosively raises his hips. Joe screams in pain (after hearing his elbow CRACK). Joe walks off the mat, obviously upset. Tim apologizes, but Joe will hear none of it. Joe is now formulating a plan of attack to even the score.\
\
Can you see a disaster in the making?\
\
EXAMPLE TWO\
Joe comes to class with an injured right elbow. He knows he shouldn\'92t be there tonight because his elbow is still bothering him. He also knows he should not participate in sparring because more than likely he will get hurt. However, he came there to see if Tim was going to be there so he could even the score. Tim is not there. Joe doesn\'92t tell anyone he\'92s injured and goes ahead and participates in class.\
\
Since Tim is not there, Joe wants to practice with Mike \'96 the biggest guy in class. Joe begins practicing with Mike, and all is well for the first 10 minutes or so. Joe gets a little frisky and Mike matches him speed for speed, power for power. Joe is enjoying himself because he is better than Mike, but Mike is bigger than him.\
\
Then, the unthinkable happens. Mike gets a sweep on Joe. Not wanting to look bad in front of his peers, Joe resists the sweep by putting his right hand out for base. When the heel of Joe\'92s hand hits the mat, he feels an excruciatingly painful tear near his right elbow. Before he can scream in pain, Mike explosively attempts the sweep a second time.\
\
Can you see another disaster in the making?\
\
While both of these examples are extremes, they do illustrate a point:\
\
When you are not in full training mode (because of an injury or mindset), it is your responsibility to give your training partners a heads up. Here are a few examples of what I mean:\
\
1. If you are injured, tell your partners. Ask them to be respectful of your injury.\
2. If you want to train hard (ballistically), ASK YOUR PARTNER for permission first.\
3. If you are frustrated by events outside the academy, let your partner know (or go home).\
4. If you develop a communicable disease, let your instructor know. Take precautions.\
\
Here\'92s the bottom line:\
\
Martial arts training is dangerous enough without adding \'93other\'94 factors to the training environment. If your mind and mood are not ready to be a part of a group endeavor, be honest with your training partner and the instructor. They deserve to be given a \'93heads up\'94!\
\
Also, try not to feel bad about NOT being in the mood for good training. It\'92s OK. Everyone experiences it sooner or later. Just make the effort to be honest with your instructor and training partners. That way, you can prevent injuries and/or hard feelings should something \'93happen\'94 as a result of your temporary inability to focus.\
\
Good training to you,\
\
Roy Harris\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Copyright \'a9 2016 Roy Harris. All Rights Reserved.}